For OPEC , that 's ideal . The resulting firm prices and stability `` will allow both producers and consumers to plan confidently , '' says Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazer . OPEC Secretary-General Subroto  explains  : Consumers offer security of markets , while OPEC provides security of supply . `` This is an opportune time to find mutual ways { to prevent } price shocks from happening again , '' he says . To promote this balance , OPEC now is finally confronting a long-simmering internal problem .

I , by contrast , can not help feeling that if some other curiosity from the Burgess Shale had survived instead , beings at once wiser and less boorish than Homo sapiens might have eventually gained earthly dominion . But even if no conscious life had evolved here at all , the universe is a big place , and given the right conditions , sympathetic to creating some form of life . Surely at some other cosmic address a Gouldoid creature would have risen out of the ooze to  explain  why , paleontologically speaking , `` it is , indeed , a wonderful life . '' Mr. Holt is a columnist for the Literary Review in London .

`` You ca n't build on your hit-and-miss five-seventeen '' . `` What are you playing '' ? ? Owen asked . `` I 'm just logging '' , the cowboy  explained  . `` I keep all these plays in this little black book , and I watch over a twelve-hour period to find out what numbers are repeating . But roulette 's not my game .

When he added to his Pittsburgh commitments the directorship of the London Philharmonic Orchestra in 1958 , he conducted one hundred fifty concerts within nine months , `` commuting '' between the two cities . This schedule became too strenuous , even for the energetic and conscientious Mr. Steinberg . His London contract was rescinded , and now , he  explains  cheerfully , as a bright smile lightens his intense , mobile face , `` I conduct only one hundred and twenty concerts '' ! ! Our meeting took place in May , 1961 , during one of the Maestro 's stop-overs in New York , before he left for Europe . As we began to converse in the lounge of his Fifth Avenue hotel , his restlessness and sensitivity to light and sound became immediately apparent .

While this theory is exceedingly simple , it appears to explain several things . First , why ticket splitting has increased and taken the peculiar pattern that it has over the past half century : Prior to the election of Franklin Roosevelt as president and the advent of the New Deal , government occupied a much smaller role in society and the prisoner 's dilemma problem confronting voters in races for Congress was considerably less severe . Second , it  explains  why voters hold Congress in disdain but generally love their own congressional representatives : Any individual legislator 's constituents appreciate the specific benefits that the legislator wins for them but not the overall cost associated with every other legislator doing likewise for his own constituency . Third , the theory suggests why legislators who pay too much attention to national policy making relative to local benefit-seeking have lower security in office . For example , first-term members of the House , once the most vulnerable of incumbents , have become virtually immune to defeat .

Just the same , the old woman said , she would write to her nephew in his boxcar and tell him she had met a nice man from his adopted country . And Sam thanked her , and hoped he might meet her nephew back home , and asked her if she had any further news of the Pope . A very great Pope , this one , the old woman  explained  , her black eyes sparkling . An intellectual . But very mystical too .

But can one , really ? ? Can God be mocked , ever , in the long run ? ? New Englanders were a bit sensitive on the subject of their complicity in Negro slavery at the time of the drafting of the Declaration of Independence , as Jefferson  explained  in his `` Autobiography '' : `` The clause reprobating the enslaving the inhabitants of Africa was struck out in complaisance to South Carolina and Georgia , who had never attempted to restrain the importation of slaves , and who on the contrary still wished to continue it . Our Northern brethren also I believe felt a little tender under those censures ; ; for though their people had very few slaves themselves , yet they had been pretty considerable carriers of them to others '' . But that was a long time ago .

Instead of quelling the dissension , as many captains of the era would have done ( Sir Francis Drake lopped a man 's head off under similar circumstances ) , Hudson decided to be reasonable . He went to his cabin and emerged carrying a large chart , which he set up in view of the crew . Patiently , he  explained  what he knew about their course and their objectives . When Hudson had finished , the `` town meeting '' broke down into a general , wordy argument . One man remarked that if he had a hundred pounds , he would give ninety of them to be back in England .

They finished the small bottle of Steinhager . She confessed she was unhappy , he asked was it her husband ? ? She began to  explain  , `` There was this poet , in Italy '' He interrupted , `` Please do n't judge all poets '' . They smiled .

For Gorky , Mr. Helpern provided an aural collage of Debussy and Rachmaninoff , which is less a score than a separate character with a distinct point of view . Like Brecht , and indeed Ezra Pound , Ms. Bogart has said that her intent in such manipulative staging of the classics is simply an attempt to `` make it new . '' Indeed , during a recent post-production audience discussion , the director  explained  that her fondest artistic wish was to find a way to play `` Somewhere Over the Rainbow '' so that the song 's `` original beauty comes through , '' surmounting the cliche . The danger that Ms. Bogart seems to be courting here is one of obfuscation rather than rejuvenation , a vision so at odds with the playwright 's that the two points of view nullify , rather than illuminate , each other . Ms. Bogart 's cast is part and parcel of the problem .

`` We 've been opposed to '' index arbitrage `` for a long time , '' said Stephen B. Timbers , chief investment officer at Kemper , which manages $ 56 billion , including $ 8 billion of stocks . `` Index arbitrage does n't work , and it scares natural buyers '' of stock . While Mr. Timbers  explained  he 's `` not totally convinced index arbitrage changes the overall level of the stock market , '' he said that `` on an intraday basis , it has major effects . We 've talked to proponents of index arbitrage and told them to cool it because they 're ruining the market . They said , ` Too bad , ' so we finally said we 're not going to do business with them . ''

I took a deep breath and an even deeper swallow of my drink , and said , `` I admit that going back to Ralph Waldo Emerson for humor is like going to a modern musical comedy for music and comedy '' . `` What 's the matter with the music '' ? ? Moreland asked . `` It does n't drown out the dialogue '' , I  explained  . `` Let 's talk about books '' , Moreland said . `` I am told that in America you have non-books by non-writers , brought out by non-publishers for non-readers .

They argue that the rights of RICO defendants and third parties not named in RICO indictments have been unfairly damaged . The department 's most significant clarification of existing RICO policy is a directive to prosecutors that they should seek to seize assets from defendants `` in proportion '' to the nature of the alleged offense , Mr. Runkel said . `` That means that if the offense deals with one part of the business , you do n't attempt to seize the whole business ; you attempt to seize assets related to the crime , '' he  explained  . In general , the thrust of the department 's directive is to encourage prosecutors to limit pretrial asset seizures if there are less intrusive means of protecting assets the government may subsequently be able to seize after a conviction , Mr. Runkel said .

Logic plays a minimal role here . More important are what LSI calls `` psychological anchors '' -- a few focal points calculated to appeal to the jury on a gut level . In one personal-injury case , a woman claimed she had been injured when she slipped in a pool , but the fall did n't  explain  why one of her arms was discolored bluish . By repeatedly drawing the jury 's attention to the arm , the defense lawyers planted doubt about the origin of the woman 's injuries . The ploy worked .

However , such a hotbed of gossip had grown up during the trial , that every precaution had to be taken to keep my visit from being whispered to the world , Society , and even , alas , to my own mother . When I arrived at Viola 's I was shown , to my surprise , into the kitchen . Viola greeted me , in checked apron , ladle in hand , and  explained  it was the cook 's night out and that she herself was preparing dinner . I sat and watched proceedings . There was to be roast chicken with dressing , giblet gravy , asparagus , new peas with a sprig of mint , creamed onions , and mashed potatoes -- all chosen , prepared , and cooked by Viola herself .

But you should understand , Jack , that Hesperus and Lucifer are not long out of the nursery . Visiting the Earth would not be an offering of worth to those of us who are older '' . This  explained  a great deal . `` All the more reason , then '' , Jack said , `` why we must have a treaty . We will gladly entertain your young and give them proper living quarters , in return for their help in running our fusion reactors .

`` I 'd much rather see them dealing with interest rates and the deficit . '' Peter Anthony , who runs an employment agency in New York , decries program trading as `` limiting the game to a few , '' but he also is n't sure it should be more strictly regulated . `` I do n't want to denounce it because denouncing it would be like denouncing capitalism , '' he  explains  . And surprising numbers of small investors seem to be adapting to greater stock market volatility and say they can live with program trading . Glenn Britta , a 25-year-old New York financial analyst who plays options for his personal account , says he is `` factoring '' the market 's volatility `` into investment decisions . ''

In March there was a division of the slaves , and Giffen carried out his instructions as nearly as possible . Of the fifty-two slaves , Giffen succeeded in getting a lot of twenty , twelve of whom were females . `` I considered that your views would be best carried out '' , he  explained  , `` by taking women whose progeny will of course be free &amp; more fully extend the philantrophy of Emancipation . I have also taken the old servants of your father as a matter of Conscience &amp; Justice '' . The ages of the slaves ranged from sixty-five , for an old house servant , to an unnamed newborn child .

Even as he became widely known as a professional killer , nearly every cowboy and rancher in Wyoming seemed proud to call him a friend . No man 's name brought more cheers when it was announced in a rodeo . `` Well '' , he  explained  , `` s'posin ' you was a nester swingin ' the long rope ? ? Which would you be most scairt of -- a dry-gulchin ' or a shoot-down '' ? ? `` Yeah , I can see that '' , the friend was forced to agree .

If they follow anyone , it 'll have to be you '' . He paused . `` I should  explain  : there 's more here for me than advocating my little dream , there 's you . You must n't take a fall , or publicly back away . I hate that .

`` It was only the other day that I saw something of yours , about something or other , in some magazine '' . This baffling lack of distinct details recalls the secretary whose employer was leaving the office and told her what to answer if anyone called in his absence . `` I may be back '' , he  explained  , `` and then again , I may not '' . The girl nodded understandingly . `` Yes , sir '' , she said , `` is that definite '' ? ?

Some apply it to gouty joints . The plant has a hairy stem that produces flowers and diminutive seeds . It is the seed 's colorlessness and size -- 1,000 of them weigh only 1.5 grams , or about as much as two paper clips -- that  explain  the historical allusions to fleas . The transluscent husk of the seed is removed , sifted and crushed ; the seed itself is fed to animals . Some 90 % of the crop , which was worth $ 26 million last year , is exported .

`` If you were a short-term investor , you might be more leery about program trading . '' Jim Enzor of Atlanta defends program trading because he believes that it can bring the market back up after a plunge . `` If we have a real bad day , the program would say , ` Buy , ' '' he  explains  . `` If you could get the rhythm of the program trading , you could take advantage of it . '' What else can a small investor do ?

Hemingway 's fiction is supported by a `` moral '' backbone and in its search for ultimate meaning hints at a religious dimension . And D.H. Lawrence , in Fantasia Of The Unconscious , protested vehemently against the overestimation of the sexual motive . Though sex in some form or other enters into all human activity and it was a good thing that Freud emphasized this aspect of human nature , it is fantastic to  explain  everything in terms of sex . `` All is not sex '' , declared Lawrence . Man is not confined to one outlet for his vital energy .

On the way he stopped at the desk to receive his mail . There was a check from his company , and the usual enthusiastic bulletins on new lines they always issued . His lawyer had sent him a statement on his overdue alimony , and there was a letter from the Collector of Internal Revenue asking him to stop in his office and  explain  last year 's exemptions . He ate breakfast in a sullen mood , but afterwards , when he walked out onto Virginia Street , he felt braced . He looked off to the crest of the Sierras , still white-topped ; ; the glisten of the Truckee River made a wide spangle .

Differences were related to social , economic , and educational backgrounds . Whereas persons of eighth grade education or less were more apt to avoid or be shocked by nudity , those educated beyond the eighth grade increasingly welcomed and approved nudity in sexual relations . Such understanding helps to  explain  why one matron celebrating thirty-five years of married life could declare with some pride that her husband had `` never seen her entirely naked '' , while another woman , boasting an equal number of years of married life , is proud of having `` shared the nudist way of life -- the really free , natural nude life -- for most of that period '' . Attempts at censorship always involve and reveal such complex and multiple individual reactions . The indignant crusader sees the nude or semi-nude human form as `` lewd and pornographic , a threat and danger '' to all the young , or good , or religious , or moral persons .

Sharp-witted and funny but never mean , she 's a memorialist a bit like Truman Capote , if he 'd been Jewish and female and less bitchy . Little Lily , as Ms. Cunningham calls herself in the book , really was n't ordinary . She was raised , for the first eight years , by her mother , Rosie , whom she remembers as a loving liar , who realigned history to  explain  why Lily 's father did n't live with them . Rosie reinvented this man , who may or may not have known about his child , as a war hero for Lily 's benefit . Rosie died young and Lily has remembered her as a romantic figure , who did n't interfere much with her child 's education on the streets .

He predicted that inflation will moderate next year , saying that credit conditions are fairly tight world-wide . But Dirk Van Dongen , president of the National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors , said that last month 's rise `` is n't as bad an omen '' as the 0.9 % figure suggests . `` If you examine the data carefully , the increase is concentrated in energy and motor vehicle prices , rather than being a broad-based advance in the prices of consumer and industrial goods , '' he  explained  . Passenger car prices jumped 3.8 % in September , after climbing 0.5 % in August and declining in the late spring and summer . Many analysts said the September increase was a one-time event , coming as dealers introduced their 1990 models .

Litigation Sciences does n't make moral distinctions . If a client needs prejudiced jurors , the firm will help find them . As Mr. Vinson  explains  it , `` We do n't control the facts . They are what they are . But any lawyer will select the facts and the strategy to employ .

`` And it 's all the more tragic because it 's so little deserved '' , said Mr. J. J. A. Frans , a Belgian official of the United Nations Educational , Scientific , and Cultural Organization . We talked after I hailed his Jeep marked with the U.N. flag . Practically all the people of Laos , he  explained  -- about two million of them -- are rice farmers , and the means and motives of modern war are as strange to them as clocks and steel plows . They look after their fields and children and water buffaloes in ten or eleven thousand villages , with an average of 200 souls . Nobody can tell more closely how many villages there are .

Furthermore , he could go on repeating the maneuver endlessly : every time he went in the bedroom , he could drop a slip or a brassiere , or maybe a girdle , next to his shorts . Sooner or later , Dolores would crack . On the other hand , if she did n't remove her own things , it would be difficult to  explain  to the parade of guests which traversed the apartment . Martin guessed that Dolores would not be so eager to tell the next installment of her story . The tale , he thought , would become less gay .

It is often stated that Copernican astronomy is ' simpler ' than Ptolemaic . Some even say that this is the reason for the ultimate acceptance of the former . Thus , Margenau remarks : `` A large number of unrelated epicycles was needed to  explain  the observations , but otherwise the ( Ptolemaic ) system served well and with quantitative precision . Copernicus , by placing the sun at the center of the planetary universe , was able to reduce the number of epicycles from eighty-three to seventeen . Historical records indicate that Copernicus was unaware of the fundamental aspects of his so-called ' revolution ' , unaware perhaps of its historical importance , he rested content with having produced a simpler scheme for prediction .

I rapped my knuckles on the counter . The director came to the door . I was at once disappointed , although just what I had expected him to look like I could not have  explained  . He was a man in his late forties , with graying hair , of medium height ; ; he looked dapper in a lightweight summer suit , brown silk tie and green-tinted soft collar . He wore perforated , white-topped shoes ; ; they somehow made me expect to see him launch into a vaudeville tapdance routine any moment .

Underclass neighborhoods offer relatively few employment opportunities , contributing to the poverty of local residents . Small neighborhood businesses could provide more jobs , if crime were not so harmful to creating and maintaining those businesses . This may help  explain  why small businesses create 65 % of all jobs nationally , but only 22 % of jobs in a crime-ridden city like New York . Bigger business can often better afford to minimize the cost of crime . The New York study found that the cost of security measures in firms with fewer than five employees was almost $ 1,000 per worker , compared with one-third that amount for firms with more than 10 employees .

`` Ekstrohm , Nogol , you guys okay '' ? ? `` Nothing wrong with me that could n't be cured '' , Nogol said . He did n't say what would cure him ; ; he had been  explaining  all during the trip what he needed to make him feel like himself . His small black eyes darted inside the olive oval of his face . `` Ekstrohm '' ? ? Ryan insisted .

He started out as a stickman , then became a pit boss until the Club found him crossroading . He was knocking down checks at faro '' . `` I 'm allergic to Tahoe '' , Owen  explained  . `` Something about the pollen '' . `` Well , okay '' , Buzz said .

At that moment Kipling was overwhelmed with awed amazement , suddenly recalling that these identical details of scene , action and word had occurred to him in a dream six weeks earlier . Freud probably contributed more than anyone else to the understanding of dreams , enabling us to recognize their equivalents in our wakeful thoughts . However , readers who accept Freud 's findings and believe that he has solved completely the mystery of dreams , should ponder over the following words in his Interpretation Of Dreams , Chapter 1 : : As `` a matter of fact no such complete solution of the dream has ever been accomplished in any case , , and what is more , every one attempting such solution has found that in most cases there have remained a great many components of the dream the source of which he has been unable to  explain  nor is the discussion closed on the subject of the mantic or prophetic power of dreams '' . Dreams present many mysteries of telepathy , clairvoyance , prevision and retrovision . The basic mystery of dreams , which embraces all the others and challenges us from even the most common typical dream , is in the fact that they are original , visual continuities .

Shaffner looked at him , altogether without guile , and shrugged his shoulders , making a little spreading gesture with his two hands . `` What do you mean '' ? ? Waddell asked , frowning . `` Please let me  explain  '' , the German said earnestly , his face still devoid of deceit . `` I have in Europe a gross business of seven million dollars the year . Now I wish to enter the American market , where the competition is very strong .

Startled , he jumped up to pull hen and case out of view , and Alex went to the door . He opened it a crack and in doing so made as much shuffling , coughing , and scraping noise as possible in order to drown emanations from the hen who had begun to protest . It was Giselle , the fille de chambre , come to clean the room , and while she stood before him with ears pricked up and regard all curiosity ,  explaining  her errand , Alex could see from the corner of his eye the doctor doing all he could to calm the displeased bird . Giselle was reluctant but Alex succeeded in persuading her to come back in five minutes and the door was shut again . `` Who was that , young feller '' ? ? The doctor instantly asked .

One devoted fan who fell under Baker 's spell in 1963 and began collecting Baker memorabilia was Bryan Hammond . In `` Josephine Baker '' ( Jonathan Cape , 304 pages , $ 35 ) , which was published in Britain last year and distributed in the U.S. this month , Mr. Hammond has used his collection to produce an album of photographs and drawings of the star . The text by Patrick O'Connor is a tough read , but the pictures make her magnetism clear and help  explain  why Ernest Hemingway called Baker `` The most sensational woman anybody ever saw . Or ever will . '' Mr. Lescaze is foreign editor of the Journal .

It was simply Poor John . There was nothing specifically wrong with Edythe , but there was absolutely nothing right about her either . Mousie Chandler had been to school with her someplace near Baltimore and tried to  explain  rather than defend her to the gang having lunch at Horne 's . `` Well , you should n't underestimate Edythe '' , Mousie said . `` I know she gives the impression of being shallow and frivolous and scatterbrained .

I could tell them , but no one ever asked , why I had cried out so triumphantly at the sight of her body . No , I forget Mrs. Mathias , who had been away visiting a married daughter when it happened . She haunted me ; ; she persisted in  explaining  how and why she had advised Mrs. Salter to return to the country . `` We all feel guilty '' , I turned away from her coldly . `` It was nobody 's fault .

`` Why '' ? ? `` I would like to enact a little tableau this afternoon '' , Rector said , He  explained  about the visit and the effect he wished to create , the picture of a very busy mission . He did not wish to deceive Kayabashi exactly , just to display the mission activities in a graphic and impressive manner . Fletcher nodded as he listened to the instructions and said he would arrange the things Rector requested .

The entire concept of cerebral imagery as the physical basis of a mental image can find no logical support . A `` mental image '' subconsciously impressing us from beneath its language symbols in wakeful thought , or consciously in light sleep , is actually not an image at all but is comprised of realities , viewed not in the concurrent sensory stream , but within the depths of the fourth dimension . Dreams that display events of the future with photographic detail call for a theory  explaining  their basic mystery and all its components , including that weird feeling of deja vue , inevitably fantastic though that theory must seem . As in the theory of perception , established in psycho-physiology , the eye is recognized as an integral part of the brain . But then this theory confesses that it is completely at a loss as to how the image can possibly be received by the brain .

( The legislation is similar to a 1987 `` beeper bill '' that was defeated after heavy lobbying by the telemarketing industry . ) Also last spring , Rep. Ron Dellums ( D. , Calif. ) , introduced a bill requiring universal two-party consent to any tapings in cases that do n't involve law enforcement . In addition , products such as voice-activated tape recorders would have to include beep tones and labels  explaining  federal laws on eavesdropping . The outlook on both federal bills is uncertain , especially remembering the 1987 defeat . The ACLU and worker organizations back tighter laws , but employers and device manufacturers object .

`` Yes '' , Owen called out . `` Yes '' ? ? `` I 'm Mrs. Gertrude Parker '' , a soft voice  explained  , `` And I 'd like to talk to you for a few minutes , please '' . Ahah , he thought , a lush divorcee at last . Probably saw me in the lobby .

The picture is the more treacherous when it misrepresents the facts of American life . The discrepancy between what we commonly profess and what we practice or tolerate is great , and it does not escape the notice of others . If our sincerity is granted , and it is granted , the discrepancy can only be  explained  by the fact that we have come to believe hearsay and legend about ourselves in preference to an understanding gained by earnest self-examination . What is more , the legends have become so sacrosanct that the very habit of self-examination or self-criticism smells of low treason , and men who practice it are defeatists and unpatriotic scoundrels . Although we continue to pay our conversational devotions to `` free private enterprise '' , `` individual initiative '' , `` the democratic way '' , `` government of the people '' , `` competition of the marketplace '' , etc. , we live rather comfortably in a society in which economic competition is diminishing in large areas , bureaucracy is corroding representative government , technology is weakening the citizen 's confidence in his own power to make decisions , and the threat of war is driving him economically and physically into the ground '' .

Michelangelo found the rabbi in the room of study , a gentle old man with a white beard and luminous grey eyes , robed in black gabardine with a skullcap on his head . He was reading from the Talmud with a group of men from his congregation . When Michelangelo  explained  why he had come , Rabbi Melzi replied gravely : `` The Bible forbids us to bow down to or to make graven images . That is why our creative people give their time to literature , not to painting or sculpture '' . `` But , Rabbi Melzi , you do n't object to others creating works of art '' ? ?

The glass is out of it , but that wo n't matter . It looks pretty efficient and that 's the important thing '' . He went on to  explain  what he had in mind . Johnson nodded . He said he could do it .

Had Sam ever lived in a boxcar ? ? She wanted to know . Regretfully Sam  explained  that he had no experience with boxcars . Just the same , the old woman said , she would write to her nephew in his boxcar and tell him she had met a nice man from his adopted country . And Sam thanked her , and hoped he might meet her nephew back home , and asked her if she had any further news of the Pope .

Almost immediately they began to sizzle . He looked up and grinned . `` A Kroger 's self-serve '' , he  explained  . `` I self-served '' . When they had licked the last of the wieners ' taste from their fingers , they settled back , and Cappy offered Ernie a cigarette .

They have about seven candidates . Researchers say the inactivation of tumor-suppressor genes , alone or in combination , appears crucial to the development of such scourges as cancer of the brain , the skin , kidney , prostate , and cervix . There is evidence that if people inherit defective versions of these genes , they are especially prone to cancer , perhaps  explaining  , finally , why some cancers seem to haunt certain families . The story of tumor-suppressor genes goes back to the 1970s , when a pediatrician named Alfred G. Knudson Jr. proposed that retinoblastoma stemmed from two separate genetic defects . He theorized that in the eye cancer , an infant inherited a damaged copy of a gene from one parent and a normal copy from the other .

Ben and Stinky went home an hour ago and people started going to bed '' . `` Oh '' . Mike felt disappointed that Mahmoud had left ; ; he wanted to  explain  his new grokking . `` I ought to be asleep , too , but I felt like a snack . Are you hungry '' ? ?

Dr. Blumenfeld concedes he did n't fully understand what he was buying . He says that he knew he was getting a zero-coupon CD and that he had previously invested in TIGRs ( Treasury Income Growth Receipts ) , a type of zero-coupon Treasury security sold by Merrill Lynch . But he says he did n't understand he was buying the CD on the secondary market , and he contends his broker never fully  explained  the risks . The broker , Thomas Beairsto of Merrill Lynch 's Morristown , N.J. , office , refuses to discuss the matter with a reporter , referring inquiries to Merrill Lynch officials in New York . Those officials say there was full disclosure of the risks in a `` fact sheet '' sent to all CD investors with their confirmation of sale .

Die Frist ist um , und wiederum verstrichen sind sieben Jahr , the Maestro quoted The Flying Dutchman , as he told of his career and wanderings ,  explaining  that the number seven had significantly recurred in his life several times . The music director of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra , William Steinberg , has molded his group into a prominent musical organization , which is his life . When he added to his Pittsburgh commitments the directorship of the London Philharmonic Orchestra in 1958 , he conducted one hundred fifty concerts within nine months , `` commuting '' between the two cities .

There is a pause in the merriment as your friends gaze at you , wondering why you are staring , open-mouthed in amazement . You  explain  , `` I have the strangest feeling of having lived through this very same event before . I ca n't tell when , but I 'm positive I witnessed this same scene of this particular gathering at some time in the past '' ! ! This experience will have happened to many of you .

Although a GOP president may limit local benefits to the voter 's particular district\/state , such a president is also likely to be more effective at preventing other districts\/states and their legislators from bringing home the local benefits . The individual voter 's standing consequently will be enhanced through lower taxes . While this theory is exceedingly simple , it appears to  explain  several things . First , why ticket splitting has increased and taken the peculiar pattern that it has over the past half century : Prior to the election of Franklin Roosevelt as president and the advent of the New Deal , government occupied a much smaller role in society and the prisoner 's dilemma problem confronting voters in races for Congress was considerably less severe . Second , it explains why voters hold Congress in disdain but generally love their own congressional representatives : Any individual legislator 's constituents appreciate the specific benefits that the legislator wins for them but not the overall cost associated with every other legislator doing likewise for his own constituency .

Some scenes : -- Saturday morning , a resident was given 15 minutes to scurry into a sagging building and reclaim what she could of her life 's possessions . Saturday night she dined in an emergency shelter on salmon steaks prepared by chefs from one of the city 's four-star restaurants . -- Mayor Art Agnos stands in the glare of television lights trying to  explain  for the 20th time why the city is severely restricting access to badly damaged structures . A couple in fashionable spandex warm-up suits jogs by , headphones jauntily in place , weaving their way along a street of fractured and fallen houses . At a nearby corner , they swerve perilously close to a listing apartment house , oblivious to any danger .

He can not , e.g. compute the retrograde arc traveled by Mars , without also making suppositions about the earth 's own motion . He can not describe eclipses without entertaining some form of a three-body problem . In Ptolemaic terms , however , eclipses and retrograde motion were phenomena simpliciter , to be  explained  directly as possible resultants of epicyclical combinations . In a systematic astronomy , like that of Copernicus , retrogradations become part of the conceptual structure of the system ; ; they are no longer a puzzling aspect of intricately variable , local planetary motions . Another contrast stressed when discussing Ptolemaic vs. Copernican astronomy , turns on the idea of simplicity .

General Motors Corp. is sponsoring its first independent display in 10 years , and it includes a boxy Buick station wagon with wood-grain side panels . Ford and Chrysler also have exhibits , although theirs are tucked in a separate room with the less-popular automotive parts section . `` We 've got to get out of the Detroit mentality and be part of the world mentality , '' declares Charles M. Jordan , GM 's vice president for design , in  explaining  his pilgrimage to the Tokyo Show . Even so , traditional American cockiness is n't terribly endangered . Ford officials , for example , crowed about their first-ever Tokyo Grand Prix racing victory .

`` No '' . It was flat , definite . `` Suppose you let me  explain  . Actually , I rather doubt that we 'll have to do this . Even if we do , you 'll be out of here in a week , probably '' .

As the tooth moves , bone cells on the pressure side of it will dissolve , and new ones will form on the side from which the tooth has moved . This must be done at the rate at which new bony tissue grows , and no faster . `` If teeth are moved too rapidly , serious injury can be done to their roots as well as to the surrounding bone holding them in place '' ,  explains  Dr. Brodie . `` Moving one or two teeth can affect the whole system , and an ill-conceived plan of treatment can disrupt the growth pattern of a child 's face '' . During the first few days of wearing the appliance and immediately following each adjustment , Susan may have a slight discomfort or soreness , but after a short time this will disappear .

`` Whatever you say '' . Pat swung into the saddle , yet still he delayed , his brows puckered . `` You owe it to Penny to give her a chance to  explain  that she was defending you , really '' , he observed mildly . `` Old Crip was n't '' , retorted Cobb tartly . `` He 'll know when you tell him .

It was then that they heard the tread of one descending and , in some perturbation glancing up , saw the patronne coming towards them as they gained the landing . `` Bonjour , messieurs , vous etes matinals '' , she greeted them pleasantly . Alex  explained  that they had been out for a stroll before breakfast while the doctor edged around behind him , attempting to hide the protuberance at his left side behind Alex 's arm and back . `` Vous voulez vos petits dejeuners tout de suite alors '' ? ? Their hostess enquired . Alex told her that there was no hurry for their breakfasts , trying at the same time to effect a speedy separation of the persons before and behind him .

Computer-generated videos help . `` The average American watches seven hours of TV a day . They are very visually sophisticated , ''  explains  LSI graphics specialist Robert Seltzer . Lawyers remain divided about whether anything is wrong with all this . Supporters acknowledge that the process aims to manipulate , but they insist that the best trial lawyers have always employed similar tactics .

Buzz had on a Hawaiian shirt and was carrying some sun-tan oil and dark glasses . He was shorter and fatter than Owen , who felt good standing next to him . `` We 're all going over to Lake Tahoe and try our luck at Cal-Neva '' , Buzz  explained  , still instigating . `` We ran into a guy at the Pagan Room who guarantees we can beat the wheel . He started out as a stickman , then became a pit boss until the Club found him crossroading .

So what does consensus mean ? `` It does n't mean unanimous , '' he insists , though he implies it means a bipartisan majority . `` The sustainability of U.S. foreign policy is essential , '' he  explains  . `` Why was containment so successful ? Because it had bipartisan support . ''

He was finally given leave when he was arrested for allegedly buying crack . Naturally , the principals ' union loves building tenure , and tenure has withstood previous challenge . We suggest that Mr. Fernandez find an incompetent principal , toss him out of the building and let the forces of the status quo  explain  to the parents whatever it is they 're defending . In his old job , as Dade County chief , Mr. Fernandez forced out 92 teachers and reshuffled 48 principals . He cut the dropout rate by 5.5 % .

I believe that what I do has some effect on his actions and I have learned , in a way , to commune with drunks , but certainly my actions seem to resemble more nearly the performance of a rain dance than the carrying out of an experiment in physics . I am usually filled with an uneasiness that through some unwitting slip all hell may break loose . Our inability to  explain  why certain people are fond of us frequently induces the same kind of ritual and malaise . We are forced , in our behavior towards others , to adopt empirically successful patterns in toto because we have such a minimal understanding of their essential elements . Our collective policies , group and national , are similarly based on voodoo , but here we often lack even the empirically successful rituals and are still engaged in determing them .

His first model arrived at dusk . He hesitated for a moment when Michelangelo asked him to disrobe , so Michelangelo gave him a piece of toweling to wrap around his loins , led him to the kitchen to take off his clothes . He then draped him over the rough stand ,  explained  that he was supposed to be recently dead , and was being held on his mother 's lap . The model quite plainly thought Michelangelo crazy ; ; only the instructions from his rabbi kept him from bolting . But at the end of the sitting , when Michelangelo showed him the quick , free drawings , with the mother roughed in , holding her son , the model grasped what Michelangelo was after , and promised to speak to his friends .

How interestingly clever of Robert Goldberg to use the form of pretend advocacy journalism to  explain  his perception of `` Days of Rage '' in his television critique ( Leisure &amp; Arts , Sept 11 ) . He chastises Jo Franklin-Trout for her inept presentation of advocacy journalism , judging her project as `` intellectually slipshod . '' Was not the title very clear ?

Sixty-five per cent of the Jewish teen-agers of college age attend institutions of higher learning . This is substantially higher than the figures for the American population at large -- 45.6 per cent for males and 29.2 per cent for females . This may help  explain  a phenomenon described by a small-town Jewish boy . In their first two years in high school , Jewish boys in this town make strenuous exertions to win positions on the school teams . However , in their junior and senior years , they generally forego their athletic pursuits , presumably in the interest of better academic achievement .

A small farmer and a seaport merchant could not be represented by the same spokesman , they said . But James Madison refuted that argument in one of the most celebrated political treatises ever written , No. 10 of the Federalist Papers . Madison  explained  that a representative 's duty was to speak not for the narrow interests of one group but instead for the common good . Large , heterogeneous election districts would encourage good government , said Madison , because a representative would be compelled to serve the interests of all his constituents and be servile to none . Madison 's noble and unifying vision of the representative still can guide us .

Above him somewhere were the bedrooms . Seward would be up there . He  explained  his errand , but without bothering much to make it plausible , for he felt something well up in him which was the reason why he had fled the army . He did not really want to kill , but as in the sexual act , there was a moment when the impulse took over and could not be downed , even while you watched yourself giving way to it . He was no longer worried .

`` We have no in-office business . '' Telelawyer is apparently the only telephone service that offers the telephone equivalent of an office visit . Local bar associations in some states have numbers that provide free tape-recorded messages  explaining  certain areas of the law . There also are `` 800 '' hotlines which refer people to lawyers , usually personal-injury specialists , for in-office consultation . When a caller reaches Telelawyer by dialing 900-TELELAW , a receptionist refers the call to one of six attorneys .

In the cold light of day , it seemed a lunatic arrangement . Share bath , maybe -- but share refrigerator ? ? She had  explained  it -- something about summer people 's eating out and not enough space in the units . And where was the thing ? ? He remembered seeing it last night , when he put away his small store of bachelor-type eatables .

A matching Eagleton-Newark Star Ledger poll last month showed a complete reversal . Voters in the same age group backed Democrat Florio 55 % to 29 % over Republican Courter . Abortion alone ca n't  explain  this shift , but New Jersey is a model of how so personal an issue can become a baseline of sorts in judging a candidate . By a 2-to-1 ratio , voters appear more at ease with Mr. Florio 's stance on abortion , and polls indicate his lead widens when the candidates are specifically linked to the issue . `` The times are my times , '' says Mr. Florio .

No doubt there are historians who can explain to a great extent what happened to the plans and projects of the eighteenth century . Going back over this ground and analyzing the composition of forces which have created the present scene is one of the tasks undertaken by the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions , in Santa Barbara . But however we come , finally , to  explain  and account for the present , the truth we are trying to expose , right now , is that the makers of constitutions and the designers of institutions find it difficult if not impossible to anticipate the behavior of the host of all their enterprises . The host is the flowing life of the human race . This life has its own currents and rhythms , its own multiple cycles and adaptations .

Now would you care to have us say that you were misquoted in regard to it '' ? ? Questions like this , framed in verbal fog , are perhaps the only kind that have ever stumped an experienced politician . They recall Byron 's classic comment : `` I wish he would  explain  his explanation '' . Similarly , when a reporter once questioned Lincoln in cryptic fashion , Lincoln refused to make any further statement . `` I fear explanations explanatory of things explained '' , he said , leaving the biter bit -- and bitter .

There are many grammatical misconstructions other than dangling modifiers and anatomicals which permit two different interpretations . At the home of a gourmet the new maid was instructed in the fine points of serving . `` I want the fish served whole , with head and tail '' , the epicure  explained  , `` and serve it with lemon in mouth '' . The maid demurred . `` That 's silly -- lemon in mouth '' , she said .

This left the computer with a broader range of plausible replies -- and it immediately blundered by moving a queenside pawn , to the neglect of kingside development . `` In a new position just after the opening , a computer will have serious problems , '' Mr. Kasparov said later . In such positions , he  explained  , `` you have to create something new , and the computer is n't able to do that right now . '' After only 11 moves for each side , the computer 's position was shaky . Greedily , it grabbed a pawn , at the cost of facing a brutal attack .

They recall Byron 's classic comment : `` I wish he would explain his explanation '' . Similarly , when a reporter once questioned Lincoln in cryptic fashion , Lincoln refused to make any further statement . `` I fear explanations explanatory of things  explained  '' , he said , leaving the biter bit -- and bitter . The obscurity of politicians may not always be as innocent as it looks . `` Senator '' , said an interviewer , `` your constituents ca n't understand from your speech last night just how you stand on the question '' .

I recall the startling , vivid realism of a dream in which I lived through the horror of the bombing of a little Korean town . I am sure that nothing within me is capable of composing that life-like sequence , so complete in detail , from the hodge-podge of news pictures I have seen . And when psychology  explains  glibly , `` but the subconscious mind is able to produce it '' it refers to a mental region so vaguely identified that it may embrace the entire universal mind as conceivably as part of the individual mind . Skeptics may deny the more startling phenomena of dreams as things they have never personally observed , but failure to wonder at their basic mystery is outright avoidance of routine evidence . The question becomes , `` What is a dream '' ? ?

The press conference became a stage which betrayed the drift of his private thinking , rather than his convictions . He commented -- thoughtfully , a reporter told us -- that it was `` not too important for the individual how he ends up '' . He gave us a simile to  explain  his admission that even at the worst period of his second illness it never occurred to him there was any renewed question about his running : as in the Battle of the Bulge , he had no fears about the outcome until he read the American newspapers . Yet the attitude that the fate of the Presidency demands in such a situation is quite distinct from the simple courage that can proceed with battles to be fought , regardless of the consequences . In this case others should not have had to raise the doubts and fears .

Harry is now a 57-year-old writer , whose continuing flirtation with drugs and marginal types in Hollywood and New York seems quaintly out-of-synch . Harry fondly remembers the `` old '' days of the early '70s , when people like his friend Travis would take a psychiatrist on a date to analyze what Travis was doing wrong . `` An L.A. solution , ''  explains  Mr. Friedman . Line by line Mr. Friedman 's weary cynicism can be amusing , especially when he 's riffing on the Hollywood social scheme -- the way people size each other up , immediately canceling the desperate ones who merely almost made it . Harry has avoided all that by living in a Long Island suburb with his wife , who 's so addicted to soap operas and mystery novels she barely seems to notice when her husband disappears for drug-seeking forays into Manhattan .

When he opened the door , there stood Eugene , on his way out of the apartment . He was wearing sneakers and shorts and an open-collared shirt , and in his hand he carried a little black bag . He did not  explain  where he was going , and they did not ask . Instead , they went on down the hall to their room . `` Do you think he could be having an affair '' ? ? Barbara asked , as they heard the front door close .

These institutions which Mr. Lyford names `` agreeable autocracies '' -- where did they come from ? ? Of one thing we can be sure : they were not sketched out by the revolutionary theorists of the eighteenth century who formulated the political principles and originally shaped the political institutions of what we term the `` free society '' . No doubt there are historians who can  explain  to a great extent what happened to the plans and projects of the eighteenth century . Going back over this ground and analyzing the composition of forces which have created the present scene is one of the tasks undertaken by the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions , in Santa Barbara . But however we come , finally , to explain and account for the present , the truth we are trying to expose , right now , is that the makers of constitutions and the designers of institutions find it difficult if not impossible to anticipate the behavior of the host of all their enterprises .

The latter required juggling several elements simultaneously . This was not simpler but much more difficult than exercises within Ptolemy 's astronomy . Analogously , anyone who argues that Einstein 's theory of gravitation is simpler than Newton 's , must say rather more to  explain  how it is that the latter is mastered by student-physicists , while the former can be managed ( with difficulty ) only by accomplished experts . In a sense , Einstein 's theory is simpler than Newton 's , and there is a corresponding sense in which Copernicus ' theory is simpler than Ptolemy 's . But ' simplicity ' here refers to systematic simplicity .

`` I do n't think we do now , '' he says . `` I think we did . '' Asked the same question after his appearance , Democrat Florio identifies a staff member by name and  explains  her whereabouts today . When he is presented with a poster celebrating the organization 's 20th anniversary , he recognizes a photograph of one of the founders and recalls time spent together in Camden . Details and Camden are essential Florio .

McFeeley looked puzzled . Kahler continued : `` I fixed his dog the other day and I guess he 's sore , so I expected him to come barging in '' . Mr. Kahler went on to  explain  how Hausman 's fox terrier had been `` making '' in his flower beds . The dog refused to be scared off , so Kahler had purchased some small firecrackers . He would lay in wait in the garage , and when the terrier came scratching around , he 'd let fly with a cherry bomb .

This is a mistake . It is engendered by confounding the Aristotelian cosmology in The Almagest with the geocentric astronomy . Ptolemy recurrently denies that he could ever  explain  planetary motion . This is what necessitates the nonsystematic character of his astronomy . So when textbooks , like that of Baker set out drawings of the ' Ptolemaic System ' , complete with earth in the center and the seven heavenly bodies epicyclically arranged on their several deferents , we have nothing but a misleading 20th-century idea of what never existed historically .

Paul A. Herbig Indiana University Bloomington , Ind . Mr. Kageyama suggests that Kotobuki Electronics Industries workers were having difficulty understanding their foreign bosses ' perspective . While Mr. Kageyama does an excellent job of  explaining  the differences , both cultural and philosophic , I question his perspective . Would he suggest that employees of an American company doing business in Japan conform to their new bosses ' culture and philosophy ? Obviously not .

She also frequently invites directors , producers , actors , writers and other show business people for `` coffee and clips in the pleasure dome . '' Guests bring movies on tape , and show their favorite three-to-five minute segments on the screen that unrolls from the ceiling of the Volokhs ' art-nouveau library ( `` the pleasure dome '' ) . They eat `` sinful and sensual things '' -- and  explain  their clips . `` It 's very revealing and soul baring , '' said Ms. Volokh . The idea for Movieline actually was dreamed up by an old friend of the Volokhs , Boris Krutchensky ( who has the title of co-publisher ) , and Laurie Halpern Smith , now the magazine 's co-editor .

It would go along doing nothing but dissociating the heavy water and then at totally unpredictable times , it would begin producing excess heat for as long as 10 or 11 hours before quieting down . The excess heat was 15 % to 20 % more than the energy involved in the electrolysis of water . Mr. Oriani said the heat bursts were too large and too long to be  explained  by the sudden release of energy that might have slowly accumulated during the experiments ' quiescent times , as some scientists have suggested . `` There is a reality to the excess energy , '' he said . Other scientists said they also were getting sporadic bursts of excess heat lasting several hours at a time .

They plan to press specifically for a relaxation of rules governing exports of machine tools , computers and other high-technology products . But the Bush administration says it wants to see evidence that all Cocom members are complying fully with existing export-control procedures before it will support further liberalization . To make its point , it is challenging the Italian government to  explain  reports that Olivetti may have supplied the Soviet Union with sophisticated computer-driven devices that could be used to build parts for combat aircraft . The London Sunday Times , which first reported the U.S. concerns , cited a U.S. intelligence report as the source of the allegations that Olivetti exported $ 25 million in `` embargoed , state-of-the-art , flexible manufacturing systems to the Soviet aviation industry . '' Olivetti reportedly began shipping these tools in 1984 .

What was the list ? ? I do n't know . Bang-Jensen never  explained  what the documents or papers were that he had in his possession . `` It was foolish of him to keep them , whatever they were . He could have been blackmailed , or his family might have been threatened .

`` You are a dinosaur ... a hangover in a $ 10 suit ... One more word and you are out on a park bench , mister . '' Finally , of course , the boss gives in , but he 's still yelling : `` I find myself  explaining  anything to Teddy Kennedy , you 'll be chasing stolen cars in Anchorage . '' In fact , throughout `` Mancuso FBI , '' we do n't get words or lines -- we get speeches . Witnesses shout , scream , pontificate : `` ... a dream that the planet could be saved from itself and from the sadistic dumb creatures who try to tear down every decent man who raises his voice . ''

In regard to Eichmann , it was to be found in the Nazi outlook , which contained a principle separate from and far worse than anti-Semitism , a principle by which the poison of anti-Semitism itself was made more virulent . Perhaps under the guidance of this Nazi principle one could , as Eichmann declared , feel personally friendly toward the Jews and still be their murderer . Not through fear of disobeying orders , as Eichmann kept trying to  explain  , but through a peculiar giddiness that began in a half-acceptance of the vicious absurdities contained in the Nazi interpretation of history and grew with each of Hitler 's victories into a permanent light-mindedness and sense of magical rightness that was able to respond to any proposal , and the more outrageous the better , `` Well , let 's try it '' . At any rate , the substance of Eichmann 's testimony was that all his actions flowed from his membership in the party and the SS , and though the Prosecutor did his utmost to prove actual personal hatred of Jews , his success on this score was doubtful and the anti-Semitic lesson weakened to that extent . But if the Trial did not expose the special Nazi mania so deadly to Jews as well as to anyone upon whom it happened to light , neither did it warn very effectively against the ordinary anti-Semitism of which the Nazis made such effective use in Germany and wherever else they could find it .

Then , by squeezing her foot three times , he came up -- presto -- with a different diagnosis with each squeeze . She had -- he informed her -- kidney trouble , liver trouble , and a severe female disorder . ( He  explained  that he could diagnose these ailments from squeezing her foot because all of the nervous system was connected to it . ) He knew just the thing for her -- a treatment from his `` cosmic light ozone generator '' machine . As he applied the applicator extending from the machine -- which consisted of seven differently colored neon tubes superimposed on a rectangular base -- to the supposedly diseased portions of Mrs. Shaefer 's body , Lee kept up a steady stream of pseudo-scientific mumbo-jumbo .

For the same fiscal year , by the way , the Bank 's net income was a robust $ 1.1 billion after provisions . Because of the business-like manner in which the Bank goes about development , financial markets have confidence in it . This helps  explain  the triple-A rating enjoyed by our bonds and our ability to borrow $ 9.3 billion in fiscal 1989 on the most advantageous terms . Another of Mr. Roberts 's criticisms is that Bank lending has done more harm than good `` by implanting the wrong incentives and deflecting energy away from economic development . '' Here , too , Mr. Roberts is way off the mark .

`` From now on , Sally and me and her folks aim to give you our turn when it comes up and fall in behind you and Rod 's outfit '' . `` Ai n't no sense you eating our dust '' , Rod protested . `` Sally and her ma want to trade off on account of Harmony being so far along '' , Dan  explained  . `` Jackson recruited his critters , and him and me fixed up his wagon while we was waiting for you to catch up . He 's got the tightest running gear in the train now .

Nothing in English has been ridiculed as much as the ambiguous use of words , unless it be the ambiguous use of sentences . Ben Franklin said , `` Clearly spoken , Mr. Fogg . You  explain  English by Greek '' . Richard Brinsley Sheridan said , `` I think the interpreter is the hardest to be understood of the two '' . And a witty American journalist remarked over a century ago what is even more true today , `` Many a writer seems to think he is never profound except when he ca n't understand his own meaning '' .

It does n't help that sometimes Ms. Rose 's language fails to deliver the effect she appears to want . One chapter opens : `` World War II was not one of France 's glorious moments . '' Elsewhere , in an attempt to  explain  without stating it plainly that Baker had a large gay following later in her career when she was an overdressed singer rather than underdressed dancer , Ms. Rose writes : `` She was a female impersonator who happened to be a woman . '' One devoted fan who fell under Baker 's spell in 1963 and began collecting Baker memorabilia was Bryan Hammond . In `` Josephine Baker '' ( Jonathan Cape , 304 pages , $ 35 ) , which was published in Britain last year and distributed in the U.S. this month , Mr. Hammond has used his collection to produce an album of photographs and drawings of the star .

But not everybody was making money . The carnage on the Chicago Board Options Exchange , the nation 's major options market , was heavy after the trading in S&amp;P 100 stock-index options was halted Friday . Many market makers in the S&amp;P 100 index options contract had bullish  positions  Friday , and when the shutdown came they were frozen with huge losses . Over the weekend , clearing firms told the Chicago market makers to get out of their positions at any cost Monday morning . `` They were absolutely killed , slaughtered , '' said one Chicago-based options trader .

The Pentagon 's recently issued `` Soviet Military Power , '' though in general adopting a softer line , repeated the Sverdlovsk assessment . It also was detailed in Congressional testimony this past February : An explosion at the Microbiology and Virology Institute in Sverdlovsk released anthrax germs that caused a significant number of deaths . Since Mr. Shevardnadze did not address this topic before the Supreme Soviet , the Soviet Union 's official  position  remains that the anthrax deaths were caused by tainted meat . We doubt this claim just as we doubted Mr. Shevardnadze 's assurance last year that Krasnoyarsk did n't violate the ABM treaty . And just as we did not believe the tendentious claims of the Congressmen and arms-control advocates who visited Krasnoyarsk , we are in no way persuaded by the assent to the tainted-meat theory by a U.S. team of scientists who met with Soviet counterparts in Washington last year .

One reason , they said , was that the official reports on the 1987 crash exonerated program trading as a cause . Stock-index arbitrage is the most controversial form of program trading because it accelerates market moves , if not actually causing them . In it , traders buy or sell stocks and offset those  positions  in stock-index futures contracts to profit from fleeting price discrepancies . Under the exchange 's definitions , program trading also describes a number of other strategies that , in the opinion of some traders , do n't cause big swings in the market . The Big Board 's disclosure of program trading activity on these two days was unusual .

This policy is totally mindless , and Sir Alan is correct to point out its deficiencies . Britain and all of Europe need to reconsider the prospects for European integration in light of the possible reunification and neutralization of Germany . A unified Germany that remained within the Western alliance would give Germany such an overshadowing  position  that all other members of a unified Europe would become vassals of the German state . Unless the Soviet Union collapses , German reunification is likely to require Germany 's neutralization . The implications for Britain , France and the rest of Europe of having their currencies tied to the economic policy of a neutral country need considering before we judge Mr. Lawson 's resignation to be unfortunate .

Omnicare Inc. , which intends to expand its  position  in the medical and dental markets , said it acquired a cotton and gauze products division from closely held Sterile Products Corp. for $ 8.2 million . Omnicare said it expects the division to add `` substantial sales volume and to make a positive contribution to our earnings in 1990 and beyond . '' In 1988 the Cincinnati company earned $ 3.1 million , or 32 cents a share , on revenue of $ 148.5 million .

A disheveled , roly-poly son of a Long Island potato farmer , Mr. Lynch is a veteran union organizer who worked on the presidential campaigns of Sen. Edward Kennedy and Mr. Jackson . But as the Dinkins campaign hit tough times this month , Andrew Cuomo , the politically seasoned son of the New York governor , is also said to have taken a more active role on strategy . Another close ally is Ruth Messinger , a Manhattan city councilwoman , some of whose programs , such as commercial rent control , have made their way into Mr. Dinkins 's  position  papers . If she remains influential with Mr. Dinkins , as some suggest she will , his mayoralty may take on a more anti-development flavor . But Lincoln Center President Nathan Leventhal , who would head a Dinkins transition team , is more mainstream , as is real-estate executive Anthony Gliedman , another insider .

Whenever the 1980s merger boom seems to be stalling , shock waves ripple through the stock market . `` The market is overvalued , not cheap , '' says Alan Gaines of the New York money-management firm Gaines Berland . He recently began increasing his cash  position  to 45 % of his portfolio . `` I look at where deals can get done , '' he says , `` and they 're not getting done '' at current prices . Lenders are growing increasingly nervous about debt-financed takeovers , investment bankers say .

The Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals opinion in the Arcadian Phosphate case did not repudiate the  position  Pennzoil Co. took in its dispute with Texaco , contrary to your Sept. 8 article `` Court Backs Texaco 's View in Pennzoil Case -- Too Late . '' The fundamental rule of contract law applied to both cases was that courts will not enforce agreements to which the parties did not intend to be bound . In the Pennzoil\/Texaco litigation , the courts found Pennzoil and Getty Oil intended to be bound ; in Arcadian Phosphates they found there was no intention to be bound .

He 's totally geared to a punitive position . '' Mr. Bush is plainly uncomfortable with the entire abortion question . For most of the past nine years , he has striven to convince anti-abortion activists of his stalwart support for their  position  . But ever since the Supreme Court 's Webster vs. Reproductive Health Services decision this year changed the political landscape of the abortion issue , the president seemingly has tried just as hard to avoid saying anything more unless pressed to the wall . Many Americans still agonize over their own personal feelings about abortion .

It is unclear what caused the creditors to do an about-face on exploring alternatives to Eastern 's new reorganization plan . However , since Eastern first filed for Chapter 11 protection March 9 , it has consistently promised to pay creditors 100 cents on the dollar . Because the carrier is still pledging to do that , some committee members successfully argued that there 's little reason yet to explore a different plan , according to one person familiar with the creditors '  position  . Earlier this month the accounting firm of Ernst &amp; Young and the securities firm of Goldman , Sachs &amp; Co. , the experts hired by the creditors , contended that Eastern would have difficulty meeting earnings targets the airline was projecting . Ernst &amp; Young said Eastern 's plan would miss projections by $ 100 million .

Even after divesting itself of $ 120 million of unprofitable business , the new Pinkerton 's will have sales of about $ 610 million this year and operating profit roughly double the industry average of 2%-3 % of sales , says Lloyd Greif of Sutro &amp; Co. in Los Angeles , which arranged the Pinkerton 's acquisition . Mr. Wathen says his turnaround strategy has been simple : just hack away at the fat . He began by closing 120 of the combined companies ' 260 offices in two months , eliminating about 31 % of the company 's 2,500-person adminstrative staff , including more than 100 sales  positions  . He shut down the company 's tony New York headquarters . Pinkerton 's world headquarters today is a nondescript , two-story office building across the street from the small Van Nuys Airport .

LIN Broadcasting Corp. said it wo n't take a  position  on a revised tender offer by McCaw Cellular Communications Inc. to buy LIN and has asked for clarification of the offer . The new offer , which seeks 50.3 % of the cellular and broadcasting concern , is for $ 125 a share for 22 million LIN shares . McCaw 's revised tender offer would require McCaw to begin an auction process in July 1994 that would buy out remaining holders at a per-share price roughly equivalent to what a third party might then have to pay for all of LIN .

From the outset , the tobacco industry has been uncertain as to what strategy to follow . But the industry retains support in the House leadership through the influence of grower states , such as North Carolina . Majority Whip William Gray owes a political debt to Southern agriculture lawmakers for his rise in the House , and the Philadelphia Democrat used his  position  in the conference to salvage the exemption from a total ban . Although the smoking provision has attracted the most public interest , the underlying bill was the subject of behind-the-scenes lobbying because of its impact on air transportation and the more mundane , but politically important , projects of members . In a stark lesson in the power of the appropriations committees , the House deliberately killed a handful of projects backed by lawmakers in Florida , Illinois and Pennsylvania who had voted against the panel leadership on the House floor .

Yet there will be people who will sob at `` Immediate Family , '' a limply constructed and offensive movie about adoption . These are the sensitive souls who can empathize with and even enjoy hearing about other people 's troubles , no matter how haltingly or predictably the sad tale is told . Written by Barbara Benedek , co-author of `` The Big Chill , '' `` Immediate Family '' takes the  position  that only rich people living in nice houses should have children . The film makers have couched this offensive idea in pretty packaging . Everyone is very nice and good-looking -- the adoptive parents ( Glenn Close and James Woods ) and the teen-age couple who decide to give up their baby for adoption ( Mary Stuart Masterson and Kevin Dillon ) .

Charles D . Way , president of this restaurant operator , assumed the additional post of chief executive officer . He succeeds Alvin A. McCall in the  position  . Mr. McCall will remain chairman .

Mr. Fiechter said that among the possibilities being considered by regulators to fight discrimination is the use of `` testers '' -- government investigators who would pose as home buyers . The Department of Housing and Urban Development has used testers to investigate discrimination in rental housing . Using testers could be controversial with financial institutions , but Mr. Grohl said the U.S. League of Savings Institutions had n't yet taken any  position  on the matter .

And any strong surge in redemptions could force some funds to dump stocks to raise cash , as some did during Black Monday . But funds generally are better prepared this time around . As a group , their cash  position  of 10.2 % of assets in August -- the latest figure available -- is 14 % higher than two years earlier . Many fund managers have boosted their cash levels in recent weeks . The biggest flurry of investor activity came early in the day .

The October short interest represents 1.04 days of average daily trading volume in the smaller stocks in the system for the reporting period , compared with 0.94 day a month ago . Among bigger OTC stocks , the figures represent 2.05 days of average daily volume , compared with 2.14 days in September . The adjacent tables show the issues in which a short interest position of at least 50,000 shares existed as of Oct. 13 or in which there was a short  position  change of at least 25,000 shares since Sept. 15 ( see accompanying tables -- WSJ Oct. 25 , 1989 ) .

The budget impact will be greater still in fiscal 1991 , and the issue forced a confrontation between the Appropriations Committee leadership and Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta , whose California district was at the center of the earthquake last week . Going to the well of the chamber , Mr. Panetta demanded the costs be fully counted . His prominent role put him in the awkward  position  of challenging the very committee members on whom his state will be most dependent in the months ahead . `` We do not come to this House asking for any handout , '' said the California Democrat . `` We do not intend to hide these costs from the American people . ''

First Iberian Fund led the percentage increases , rising to 73,100 shares from 184 . Nelson Holdings International Ltd. dropped the most on a percentage basis , to 1,000 shares from 255,923 . The adjacent tables show the Big Board and Amex issues in which a short interest position of at least 100,000 shares existed as of mid-October or in which there was a short  position  change of at least 50,000 shares since mid-September .

The Federal Reserve System is the standard object of suggestions for organizational and institutional changes , for two reasons . First , its  position  in the government is anomalous . It has an unusual kind of independence from elected officials and still has authority over one of the most powerful of government 's instruments -- the control of the money supply . Thus we have a condition that is easily described as undemocratic .

Names of possible deputies that have surfaced include former mayoral candidate Richard Ravitch , former schools chancellor Frank Macchiarola and Messrs. Leventhal and Gliedman . Then there are Mr. Dinkins 's old-time Harlem colleagues , such as U.S. Rep. Rangel , former Deputy Mayor Paterson and Mr. Sutton . Having attained  positions  of real influence or wealth , these men constitute the Old Guard of New York City black politics ; they are less confrontational than the younger , more activist black political community that has been based largely in Brooklyn . ( Part of Mr. Dinkins 's strength is his ability to win the support of both the Brooklyn and Harlem factions . ) `` We know there are potholes for the city out there , '' says Mr. Paterson , Mr. Dinkins 's former law partner .

Total Pentagon requests for installations in West Germany , Japan , South Korea , the United Kingdom and the Philippines , for example , are cut by almost two-thirds , while lawmakers added to the military budget for construction in all but a dozen states at home . The result is that instead of the Pentagon 's proposed split of 60-40 between domestic and foreign bases , the reduced funding is distributed by a ratio of approximately 70-30 . The extra margin for bases in the U.S. enhances the power of the appropriations committees ; meanwhile , lawmakers used their  positions  to garner as much as six times what the Pentagon had requested for their individual states . House Appropriations Committee Chairman Jamie Whitten ( D. , Miss . ) helped secure $ 49.7 million for his state , or more than double the Pentagon 's budget . West Virginia , home of Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd , would receive $ 21.5 million -- four times the military 's request .

The December contract fell 3.85 cents a pound to $ 1.1960 . London Metal Exchange warehouse stocks were down only 4,800 metric tons for the week to 84,500 tons ; expectations late last week were a drop of 10,000 to 15,000 tons . The New York market made its high for the day on the opening and when it dropped below the $ 1.23-a-pound level , selling picked up as previous buyers bailed out of their  positions  and aggressive short sellers -- anticipating further declines -- moved in . Fund selling also picked up at that point . According to Bernard Savaiko , senior commodity analyst at PaineWebber , the only stability to the market came when short sellers periodically moved in to cover their positions by buying contracts .

By comparison , Republicans have held closer to the anti-abortion movement . Only 42 GOP members opposed the president 's veto , a marginal increase over the vote two weeks ago and just 12 more than the 30 who supported the rape-and-incest exemption last year . At a recent White House meeting , Rep. Silvio Conte ( R. , Mass. ) , the ranking minority member of the House Appropriations Committee , argued with his friend Mr. Bush against a veto , and though Mr. Conte and Minority Leader Robert Michel of Illinois stood with the president yesterday , they are plainly uncomfortable with his  position  . `` This is n't a political issue , this is a moral issue , '' said Rep. Henry Hyde ( R. , Ill. ) , the most eloquent spokesman for the anti-abortion movement . But after years of using the issue for its benefit , the GOP finds its candidates on the defensive .

Nguyen Ngoc seemed an obvious choice when the Vietnamese Writers Association was looking for a new editor to reform its weekly newspaper , Van Nghe . After the sixth congress , journalists seized the opportunity provided by the liberalization to probe previously taboo subjects . Mr. Ngoc , 57 years old , had solid reformist credentials : He had lost his official  position  in the association in he early 1980s because he questioned the intrusion of politics into literature . Appointed editor in chief in July 1987 , Mr. Ngoc rapidly turned the staid Van Nghe into Vietnam 's hottest paper . Circulation soared as the weekly went way beyond standard literary themes to cover Vietnamese society and its ills .

In the first hour of trading , about one million shares a minute changed hands on the Big Board as big stock-index arbitrage sell programs pushed prices lower . ( In stock-index arbitrage , traders buy or sell big baskets of stocks against offsetting positions in futures . ) Traders said many of the sell programs are  positions  being established ahead of this Friday 's expiration . Aside from computer-guided selling , airline stocks took a beating as well . The Dow Jones Transportation Average fell 49.96 to close at 1254.27 .

John E. Hayes Jr. was elected chairman , president and chief executive officer , succeeding David S. Black , who retired . Mr. Hayes , 52 years old , left Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. in January , where he had been chairman , president and chief executive , to join Triad Capital Partners , a St. Louis company with interests in solid waste and recycling , telecommunications and international venture capital . He has resigned his posts at Triad to take the Kansas Power  positions  . Kansas Power said Mr. Black , 61 , chose early retirement .

What 's more , the coming months likely will offer him the opportunity to obtain his own majority on the five-member commission , enabling him to avoid the dissension that frustrated his predecessor . But Mr. Breeden , a 39-year-old securities lawyer , has skirted some of the heftier issues facing the financial markets . For instance , he has n't stated a clear  position  on high-risk , high-yield junk bonds , an area of growing concern as turmoil in the junk market spills over into stocks . He may be waiting to see the results of several pending SEC studies of junk market liquidity and disclosure rules . He also has kept a close wrap on the names of people under consideration for the crucial post of enforcement director at the commission , a job vacant since the summer .

Traders who sell short borrow stock and sell it , betting that the stock 's price will decline and that they can buy the shares back later at a lower price for return to the lender . Short interest is the number of shares that have n't yet been purchased for return to lenders . Although a substantial short  position  reflects heavy speculation that a stock 's price will decline , some investors consider an increase in short interest bullish because the borrowed shares eventually must be bought back . Fluctuation in short interest of certain stocks also may be caused partly by arbitraging . The figures occasionally include incomplete transactions in restricted stock .

Because the U.S. leads in most areas of biotechnology -- largely because of research investment by the U.S. government -- the sale is sure to increase concerns that Japanese companies will buy American know-how and use it to obtain the upper hand in biotechnology trade and competition . `` The biotechnology firms may be setting up their own competitors , '' said Richard Godown , president of the Industrial Biotechnology Association . He added that until now the Japanese have only acquired equity  positions  in U.S. biotechnology companies . `` They are piggybacking onto developed technology , '' he said . During the past five years , Japanese concerns have invested in several of the U.S. 's 431 independent biotechnology companies .

Savings and loans reject blacks for mortgage loans twice as often as they reject whites , the Office of Thrift Supervision said . But that does n't necessarily mean thrifts are discriminating against blacks , the agency said . The office , an arm of the Treasury , said it does n't have data on the financial  position  of applicants and thus ca n't determine why blacks are rejected more often . Nevertheless , on Capitol Hill , where the information was released yesterday at a Senate banking subcommittee hearing , lawmakers said they are worried that financial institutions are routinely discriminating against minorities . They asked regulators to suggest new ways to force banks and thrifts to comply with anti-discrimination laws .

Joe Frank Sanderson Jr. was elected president and chief executive officer of this poultry producer . Joe Frank Sanderson , who is currently chairman , chief executive and treasurer , will remain chairman . The current president and chief operating officer , J. Odell Johnson , was elected to the new  position  of vice chairman of the board .

Showtime is a distant No. 2 to Home Box Office , and in May filed a $ 2.5 billion antitrust suit against Time Warner , charging the company and its HBO and American Television cable units with conspiring to monopolize the pay TV business . HBO has close to 24 million subscribers to its HBO and Cinemax networks , while Showtime and its sister service , The Movie Channel , have only about 10 million , according to Paul Kagan Associates , a Carmel , Calif. , research firm . For TCI , the investment in Showtime puts it in an unusual  position  ; as the largest cable operator , with control of close to 12 million of the nation 's 52 million cable subscribers , TCI is HBO 's largest customer . But TCI President John Malone has long been concerned about HBO 's dominance of the pay TV business , and has been eager to keep Showtime as a healthy competitor . `` It is important to the cable industry that we have a vibrant and competitive pay-television marketplace , '' Mr. Malone said in a statement .

Robert A. Oswald , chief financial officer and a director of this natural-gas pipeline company , was elected to the additional  position  of executive vice president . In addition , Michael W. O'Donnell , executive vice president of a Columbia unit , was named assistant chief financial officer and a senior vice president of the parent company . The appointments take effect Nov. 1 .

Interprovincial Pipe Line Co. , an oil pipeline operator rumored to be mulling a gas pipeline proposal of its own , said that is n't in the cards . Instead , Richard Haskayne , president and chief executive of Interprovincial 's Calgary-based parent , Interhome Energy Inc. , said the company would prefer to work with other `` interested parties '' on a joint proposal . As for Foothills ' pre-emptive bid , Mr. Haskayne said , `` If they think it gives them some kind of priority  position  , well , that 's their strategy .

Later , Mr. Dinkins became more deeply indebted to Mr. Sutton and other city pols , including then-City Council President Paul O'Dwyer , when they helped him get appointed city clerk , a largely ceremonial post responsible for the city 's marriage bureau , among other things . ( Mr. O'Dwyer is now one of the lawyers for Mr. Sutton 's media company . ) The debt rose further in 1977 when Mr. Sutton resigned his  position  as Manhattan borough president to run for mayor . Mr. Sutton recalls : `` When I left , I sat down with Charlie { Rangel } , Basil { Paterson } and David , and David said , ` Who will run for borough president ? ' And I said , ` You will . ' '' David Garth , Mayor Koch 's longtime media adviser , says of Mr. Dinkins , `` He really is the personification of the patronage system .

The fallout for investors lately has been painful . Consider the New America High Income Fund . With a leveraged  position  of about 45 % , the fund 's share price has plunged 28.5 % so far this year . That 's worse than the price drop sustained by the bonds in its portfolio , whose total return ( bond-price changes plus interest ) has amounted to a negative 6.08 % . Such problems may not be over .

Mr. Timbers countered that `` the mere fact they put in circuit breakers is an admission of their problems . '' Morgan Stanley and Kidder Peabody , the two biggest program trading firms , staunchly defend their strategies . `` We continue to believe the  position  we 've taken is reasonable , '' a Morgan Stanley official said . `` We would stop index arbitrage when the market is under stress , and we have recently , '' he said , citing Oct. 13 and earlier this week . Michael Carpenter , president and chief executive officer at Kidder Peabody , said in a recent interview , `` We do n't think that index arbitrage has a negative impact on the market as a whole . ''

Exactly right . Now 's the time to make the political case that Presidents need the line-item weapon to restore discipline to the budget . Congress is in no  position  to naysay Mr. Bush now that we 're into Gramm-Rudman 's sequestration . Just this week , the House-Senate conference met -- 231 conferees , divided into 26 different subconferences . Senator Daniel Inouye agreed to close some bases in Hawaii in exchange for such goodies as $ 11 million for a parking lot at Walter Reed Hospital .

If a TV weatherman gets butterflies facing the camera again after a questionable forecast , Donald H. Straszheim surely understands . The chief economist of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. finds himself in such a  position  as he buzzes the Midwest on his first road trip since backpedaling on a major prediction . Mr. Straszheim expects he will take some heat , and he 's right . Since the last time he traveled this way several months ago , he has recanted a series of bold forecasts of a recession .

Gen. Paul X. Kelley , retired commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps , was elected a director of this plastics , specialty materials and aerospace concern , succeeding Jewel Lafontant , who resigned to accept a government  position  .

Your Oct. 12 editorial `` Pitiful , Helpless Presidency ? '' correctly states that I was critical of the Bush administration 's failure to have any plan in place to respond in a timely fashion to the opportunities to oust Manuel Noriega presented by the attempted military coup on Oct. 3 . You are absolutely wrong , however , in opining that this position is some kind of `` flip-flop , '' something newly arrived at as a result of reading the opinion polls . My  position  is one founded on both the facts and the law . Although you may have forgotten , public opinion about Gen. Noriega is where it is in large measure because of my investigation of his years of involvement in narcotics smuggling ( and simultaneous work as a U.S. operative ) . The public made up its mind about Gen. Noriega largely as a result of the hearings I chaired in the Subcommittee on Terrorism and Narcotics of the Foreign Relations Committee on Feb. 8 , 9 , 10 and 11 , 1988 , and again on April 4 , 1988 .

Randolph W. McElroy , a vice chairman of this bank-holding company , was named to the additional position of chairman of its principal unit , Sovran Bank . Mr. McElroy , 54 years old , will remain president and chief executive officer of the unit . Sovran also named John B. Werner a vice chairman of the parent company and the unit and elected him to the newly created  position  of chief credit officer of Sovran Financial , increasing the number of corporate board members to 35 . Mr. Werner , 58 , was formerly senior executive vice president of the parent company and the unit .

Many of the morning-session winners turned out to be losers by afternoon . In other stock-market news , the Tokyo Stock Exchange said that for the week ended Friday , the balance of margin buying rose 189.8 billion yen ( $ 1.34 billion ) , to 7.160 trillion yen ( $ 50.46 billion ) . The balance of short  positions  outstanding fell 159.7 billion yen , to 779.8 billion yen . In London , prices finished at intraday peaks , comforted by a reassuring early performance on Wall Street and news that the British government will waive its `` golden share '' in auto maker Jaguar . But trading was very sketchy , as investment decision makers remain wary from gyrations and upsets of recent weeks .

The level of negative sentiment measured by the Big Board short interest ratio slipped to 3.36 from last month 's 3.38 . The ratio is the number of trading days , at the exchange 's average trading volume , that would be required to convert the total short interest position . Some analysts suggest , however , that the ratio has weakened in value as an indicator because options and other products can be used to hedge short  positions  . Varity Corp. led the Big Board list of largest short volumes with 12,822,563 shares . Varity has proposed to acquire K-H Corp. , consisting of the auto parts division and some debt of Fruehauf Corp. , for $ 577.3 million of cash and securities .

He says Mr. Peters and Mr. Guber , as the contractual producers with consultation rights , have been invited to screenings and to give their input on the film . Dozens of Guber-Peters staffers are still working on the Warner lot and consulting on various projects on a `` daily basis , '' the attorney says . Mr. Guber , in his affidavit , says that when he advised Warner President Terry Semel of the Sony offer at lunch on Sept. 25 , Mr. Semel `` hugged and congratulated me , and expressed joy that we had finally realized our long-term ambition of running and having an equity  position  in a major entertainment company . '' Mr. Guber says he brought to lunch a release document Warner had agreed to in 1988 , when he and Mr. Peters made an aborted bid to buy part of MGM\/UA Entertainment Co. to run the MGM studio . Mr. Guber says he had crossed out `` MGM '' with a red pen and written in `` Columbia , '' giving the document to Mr. Semel .

SciMed said the appeals court remanded the case back to the district court for further proceedings . In national over-the-counter trading Friday , SciMed shares tumbled $ 2.75 to $ 43 . SciMed said it `` remains committed '' both to the `` vigorous defense '' of its  position  that the catheter does n't infringe the Lilly unit 's patent , and to the pursuit of its own counterclaims , which allege Lilly engaged in antitrust violations and other wrongful acts .

`` I do n't want to be in a position to have to sell , '' Mr. Frabotta says . Other funds have recently sold weak junk bonds to raise cash . At the 50%-leveraged Zenith Income Fund , portfolio manager John Bianchi recently dumped Mesa Petroleum , Wickes and Horsehead Industries , among others , to raise his cash  position  to a record 15 % . `` That 's a problem because cash is n't earning us very much money , '' Mr. Bianchi says . He concedes : `` This is the most difficult market that I 've been involved in . ''

Chicago has the largest population of citizens of Polish heritage in any city outside Poland . With the new service , American will fly 161 flights a week to 17 European cities . The additions solidify American 's  position  as the third-largest U.S. transatlantic carrier , behind PanAm Corp. 's Pan American World Airways and Trans World Airlines .

Randolph W. McElroy , a vice chairman of this bank-holding company , was named to the additional  position  of chairman of its principal unit , Sovran Bank . Mr. McElroy , 54 years old , will remain president and chief executive officer of the unit . Sovran also named John B. Werner a vice chairman of the parent company and the unit and elected him to the newly created position of chief credit officer of Sovran Financial , increasing the number of corporate board members to 35 .

So the next step , I suspect , is to try to get the law changed . We ( I assume you 're in this with me at this point ) need to get three words -- `` for examination only '' -- eliminated from the law . Section 501 of the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948 says Voice material shall be available to certain of us ( but now , thanks to the USIA 's new  position  , all of us ) `` for examination only . '' If those words were n't there , the nice people at the Voice would be able to send you the information or , at the very least , let you photocopy it . This is not a trivial issue .

Large cash positions help buffer funds from market declines but can cut down on gains in rising markets . Managers of junk funds were bolstering their cash hoards after the September cash crunch at Campeau Corp . Junk-portfolio managers raised their cash  position  to 9.4 % of assets in September from 8.3 % in August . In September 1988 , that level was 9.5 % . Investors in all funds will seek safety in the coming months , some analysts say .

`` When I first got a glimpse at the witness list , I could n't believe that they were going to go ahead and do this , '' says Michael Waldman , director of Congress Watch , a consumer group . `` There are some witnesses who will be forced to testify about their meetings with senators . '' And a Democratic aide to a Banking Committee member remarks , `` I too am astounded by it , because Gonzalez has certainly placed a lot of Democratic senators in a very bad  position  . '' All the senators say they merely were trying to ensure fairness for a constituent . Mr. Keating lives in Phoenix , and the California thrift 's parent is an Ohio-chartered corporation with holdings in Michigan .

Outstanding contracts are those that remain to be liquidated . By Wednesday , the outstanding October contracts amounted to 8,524 , representing about $ 1.13 billion in stock , noted Donald Selkin , head of stock-index futures research at Prudential-Bache Securities , who expects a volatile expiration today . `` There has been a tremendous increase '' in MMI  positions  , Mr. Selkin said . Consumer stocks once again set the pace for blue-chip issues . Philip Morris added 1 1\/8 to 44 1\/2 in Big Board composite trading of 3.7 million shares , Coca-Cola Co. gained 2 3\/8 to 70 3\/8 , Merck gained 1 3\/8 to 77 3\/8 and American Telephone &amp; Telegraph advanced 7\/8 to 43 3\/8 on 2.5 million shares .

Experts on sales technique say anyone representing a troubled company must walk a fine line . `` If a salesman jeopardizes his credibility in this time of trouble , it will be a problem for the long run , '' says George Palmatier , a Minden , Nev. , sales consultant and author of `` The Marketing Edge . '' Still , says John Sullivan , a management recruiter with Daniel Roberts Inc. of Boston , who has held senior sales  positions  at Polaroid and Atari : `` The customer will react to strength . Ignore the present condition . Show it 's business as usual . ''

Mr. Breeden contended that discretionary power could have an impact on the markets if rumors were to circulate about when the exchanges might be closed . He added that the president already has the power to close the markets in an emergency . But Mr. Brady argued that the SEC is closer to the markets and in a better  position  to understand when the exchanges are under such stress that they should be closed . Separately , Mr. Brady said he asked the Working Group on Financial Markets to determine whether futures margins are too low . He noted that some minimum margin requirements have been reduced to levels below those before the 1987 crash .

Final approval was on a 67-31 roll call in the Senate , which sets the stage for a veto confrontation with Mr. Bush over the issue of publicly financed abortions for poor women . Reversing an eight-year federal policy , the measure supports Medicaid abortions in cases of rape and incest , but Mr. Bush has so far refused to support any specific exemption beyond instances in which the mother 's life is in danger . Mr. Bush 's veto power puts him a commanding position in the narrowly divided House , but a vote to override his  position  could well pick up new support because of the wealth of health and education programs financed in the underlying bill . The measure before the conference yesterday funds the Departments of State , Justice and Commerce through fiscal 1990 . An estimated $ 1.32 billion is provided for next year 's census , and negotiators stripped a Senate-passed rider seeking to block the counting of illegal aliens .

The remaining 51 % of the joint venture will be controlled by Polish lubricants manufacturers , refiners and technical institutes . Explonaft will develop application guidelines for lubricants , sell high-quality mineral oils , and offer services in industrial cleaning and related fields . Burmah , which has a strong market  position  supplying marine lubricants and metal-working fluids in Poland , described the joint venture as `` fairly small . '' It did n't provide details of setup costs .

Many political analysts have speculated that the Reagan years would produce a staunchly conservative younger generation . NORC 's most recent opinion surveys find the youngest adults indeed somewhat more pro-Reagan and pro-Republican than other adults . But , says chief investigator Tom Smith , this `` does not translate into support for conservatism in general or into conservative  positions  on feminist and civil rights issues . '' Answers to a dozen questions in the 1986 , 1987 , 1988 and 1989 national surveys reveal that men and women in the 18 to 24 age bracket are considerably more liberal on race and gender than were the 18 to 24 year olds in NORC 's polling in the early 1970s and early 1980s . They were also as liberal or more liberal than any other age group in the 1986 through 1989 surveys .

Like West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl , he represents the postwar generation that has grown up during Germany 's division . Since joining the Politburo in 1983 as its youngest member , Mr. Krenz had acquired the nickname `` crown prince , '' a reference to the widely held view that he was the hand-picked successor to Mr. Honecker . In fact , the two men have had strikingly similar career paths , both having served as chief of internal security before their rise to the top party  position  . Moreover , both men have hewn to a similar hard-line philosophy . Notably , one of Mr. Krenz 's few official visits overseas came a few months ago , when he visited China after the massacre in Beijing .

Although the East German news agency ADN claimed Mr. Honecker had asked to be relieved of his duties for `` health reasons , '' West German government sources said the 26-man Politburo had asked for his resignation at a separate meeting late Tuesday . ( Mr. Honecker was twice hospitalized this summer for a gall bladder ailment and his physical condition has been the subject of intense speculation in the Western media . ) ADN said Mr. Honecker , a hard-line Stalinist who in 1961 supervised the construction of the Berlin Wall , also was relieved of his title as head of state and his  position  as chief of the military . Mr. Krenz is expected to be formally named to all three positions once the nation 's parliament convenes later this week . Mr. Honecker 's ignoble fall culminates nearly two decades of iron-handed leadership during which Mr. Honecker , now 77 years old , built East Germany into the most economically advanced nation in the Soviet bloc .

A member in the House leadership and skilled legislator , Mr. Fazio nonetheless found himself burdened not only by California 's needs but by Hurricane Hugo amendments he accepted in a vain effort to build support in the panel . The California Democrat appeared embarrassed by provisions inserted on behalf of owners of private beaches in the Virgin Islands , and lumber interests sought to add another $ 100 million in federal aid to plant timber on private land in North and South Carolina . California 's high-priced real estate puts it in an awkward  position  , too . One provision last night would have raised the cap on disaster loans to $ 500,000 from $ 100,000 per household to accommodate San Francisco losses .

On a demonstration board , emcee Shelby Lyman showed a quick kill initiated by a knight sacrifice ; no spectator refuted this line of play . Mr. Kasparov 's continuation was slower but , in the end , just as deadly . He won D.T. 's queen for two minor pieces and two pawns -- not enough compensation , in this  position  , to give the computer much hope . In a hopeless position , the computer resigned rather than make its 37th move . And Mr. Kasparov , to cheers and applause , marched back into the analysis room .

SHEARSON LEHMAN HUTTON Inc . Thomas E. Meador , 42 years old , was named president and chief operating officer of Balcor Co. , a Skokie , Ill. , subsidiary of this New York investment banking firm . Balcor , which has interests in real estate , said the  position  is newly created . Mr. Meador had been executive vice president of Balcor . In addition to his previous real-estate investment and asset-management duties , Mr. Meador takes responsibility for development and property management .

Randy Delchamps was named chairman and chief executive officer of this grocery chain . Mr. Delchamps , 46 years old , succeeds A.F. Delchamps Jr. , who died in a plane crash on Sunday at the age of 58 . Randy Delchamps retains his  position  as president .

With the increase , even more developing-country energy and talent would be diverted from creating profitable economic systems to setting up economic planning ministries that generate IMF-approved economic plans . Upping the ante could slow economic development even further , as countries delay market-opening steps in anticipation of richer multilateral support . Conservatives should take a  position  prior to the administration 's year-end deadline . The issues are too important to be left to the financial and budget ministries fighting over the size of the capital increase , rather than its purpose . If conservatives do n't support an increase in the IMF 's capital , then it is incumbent on them to speak up now and explain the alternative .

Grand Metropolitan PLC , the United Kingdom food and beverage group that owns Pillsbury Inc. of the U.S. , announced a reshuffling of board-level executive duties intended to fit the company 's recent expansion . David Nash , formerly group finance director at Cadbury Schweppes PLC , will become Grand Met 's first group finance director in January . In a statement , Grand Met said its recent `` growth and wider geographic spread '' made it necessary to create the new  position  . The company also reassigned several executive responsibilities . David Tagg , formerly in charge of gambling operations , was appointed chief executive for retailing and property .

The resulting # 1.9 billion merchandise trade deficit was partly offset by an assumed surplus of # 300 million in so-called invisible items , which include income from investments , services and official transfers . Despite the narrowing of the monthly trade gap , economists expect the current account deficit for all of 1989 to swell to about # 20 billion from # 14.6 billion in 1988 . Increasingly , economists say the big deficit reflects the slipping competitive  position  of British industry . `` When the country gets wealthier , we tend to buy high-quality imports , '' Mr. Owen said .

Marginal operations and assets have been sold . The size of the company 's board has been reduced to eight directors from 13 . About 140 salaried management jobs and hundreds of hourly wage  positions  have been eliminated . Even perks have been reduced . For example , the chief executive himself now pays 20 % of the cost of his health benefits ; the company used to pay 100 % .

Rather , there increasingly is a group of international brokerage and trading firms that operate in most European financial centers -- including European giants such as Barclays Bank PLC and Deutsche Bank , as well as Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. and Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. of the U.S. and Japan 's Nomura Securities Co . These firms , which often have acquired a local brokerage firm , are calling the shots when it comes to deciding in which market to transact a trade . And senior officials of two U.S. securities houses say they switched trades in European stocks to the London market last week when they could n't unwind  positions  on the Continent . Meantime , brokers on the Continent are worried , too , mostly by the potential loss of business . `` I would be much happier if this volume { in German stocks } were in Frankfurt rather than London , '' says Dieter Bauernfeind , head of international equity sales at Dresdner Bank in Frankfurt .

The latter would be undertaken by `` enterprises , joint stock companies and cooperatives . '' These would not function independently , but would act together to form `` combines , unions and associations '' to tackle problems and coordinate their activities . Mr. Gorbachev is in a much stronger  position  to pursue the corporatist ideal than was Mussolini , who was never able to influence business giants such as Pirelli and Fiat . The Soviet Communist Party has the power to shape corporate development and mold it into a body dependent upon it . To ensure the loyalty of the business sector , Mr. Gorbachev may offer concessions and powers that will allow the business community to preserve its own interests , probably by restricting competition .

Mr. Miles 's newly purchased shares are now worth $ 1,068,000 , based on Philip Morris 's closing price of $ 44.50 , up 62.5 cents , in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday . A spokesman for Mr. Miles said he bought the shares because he felt they were `` a good investment . '' The executive made his purchases shortly before being named to his current chief executive officer 's  position  ; formerly he was Kraft General Foods ' chief operating officer . SHEDDING GLITTER : Two directors of Pegasus Gold Inc. , a Spokane , Wash. , precious-metals mining firm , sold most of their holdings in the company Aug. 31 .

The catalog retailer reported net income of $ 10.8 million , or 21 cents a share , up sharply from $ 6.6 million , or 13 cents a share , a year earlier . Revenue rose to $ 372.1 million from $ 336.4 million . Spiegel said margins improved because its inventory  position  this year did n't need the costly markdowns required to trim last year 's swollen levels . A spokeswoman said the apparel market troughed in the first half of 1988 , then began showing improvement in the second half of last year . `` We 've seen continued improvement in 1989 , '' she said .

Mercury Savings &amp; Loan Association said it retained Merrill Lynch Capital Markets as its lead investment banker to advise it regarding a possible sale or other combination of the Huntington Beach , Calif. , thrift . Mercury , which has assets of more than $ 2 billion and 24 branches in California , said the action to improve its regulatory capital  position  is related directly to new capital requirements mandated by recently adopted federal legislation . Mercury also said it extended its two-year advisory relationship with Montgomery Securities of San Francisco . Mercury 's stock closed yesterday at $ 4.875 , unchanged in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange .

Surveys repeatedly show that small-business owners rank the availability and rising cost of health insurance as one of their biggest concerns . The House Energy and Commerce Committee 's health subcommittee , headed by Democratic Rep. Henry Waxman of California , is looking into complaints that small businesses not only ca n't keep reasonably priced employee-health insurance if claims are filed , but often ca n't get coverage at all if a worker is termed medically uninsurable . `` I have an old-fashioned name for people in that  position  : sick people who need health insurance , '' Rep. Waxman says . `` What we 're seeing now makes a mockery of the idea of insurance : collect premiums from the healthy , dump the sick and let them pay their own bills . '' Some lawmakers may seek legislation to limit overly restrictive insurance policies .

Robert P. Bulseco , 44 years old , was named president and chief administrative officer of this regional commercial bank . Both posts had been vacant . Robert Robie , 51 , was named to the new  positions  of vice chairman and chief credit officer .

It was later applied to other new-car programs , including those that produced the Ford Thunderbird and Mercury Cougar . Ford Chairman Donald E. Petersen said yesterday that Mr. Veraldi has `` helped to change the world 's perception of American-made cars . '' Mr. Veraldi worked at Ford for 40 years , holding a variety of car and parts-engineering  positions  .

In other personnel changes stemming from problems in its options unit : -- Chemical named James Kennedy , a trader in swaps contracts for the bank , to assume Mr. Edelson 's duties and to be trading manager for derivative products , including swaps and interest-rate options . -- Lee Wakeman , vice president in charge of options research who discovered the valuation errors and was asked by senior management to straighten out the mess , resigned to take a  position  in asset and liability management at Continental Bank in Chicago . Mr. Wakeman , whom Chemical tried to keep , did n't return calls for comment . Separately , Chemical confirmed that it took an undisclosed charge in the second quarter for losses on forward-rate agreements involving foreign currency written by its branch in Frankfurt , West Germany .

Storage , which includes computer controllers and 3.5-inch disk drives , represents nearly two-thirds of the company 's business . Disk drives , which allow a computer to access its memory , generated 38 % more revenue in the most recent period compared with the fiscal first quarter a year earlier . Computer parts are getting ever smaller , Mr. Johnson said , a shrinking that has propelled laptops into  position  as the fastest-growing segment of the computer business . As smaller and more powerful computers continue to be the focus of the industry , he said , Western Digital is strengthening development of laptop parts . Next year Western Digital plans to consolidate its operations from 11 buildings in Irvine into two buildings in the same city a new headquarters and , a block away , a modern $ 100 million silicon wafer fabrication plant .

Members of the audience gasped or laughed nervously ; their industry has been unsettled recently by acquisitions . First Unilever , the Anglo-Dutch packaged-goods giant , spent $ 2 billion to acquire brands such as Faberge and Elizabeth Arden . It now holds the No. 3  position  at U.S. department-store cosmetic counters . Then Procter &amp; Gamble Co. agreed to buy Noxell Corp. for $ 1.3 billion . That acquisition , to be completed by year end , will include the Cover Girl and Clarion makeup lines , making P&amp;G the top marketer of cosmetics in mass-market outlets .

My revolutionary system is also useful for those who have tried customary forms of growing their currency cushion . Like all Americans seeking chronic prosperity , I do find it necessary to plunge certain funds into conservative monetary tools , if only to assuage my father-in-law , who believes in such things . So throughout the decade I have maintained my share of individual retirement accounts and CDs , and tinkered with stocks , bonds and mutual funds , as well as preserving my necessary  position  in the residential real-estate market . Return on this fine portfolio has been modest when it has not been negative . Figure 1 demonstrates the performance of those businesses I 've invested in during this prosperous decade ( see accompanying illustration -- WSJ Oct. 20 , 1989 ) .

Building on the corner severely damaged , so an old lady and her very old mother are in the guest room . Books and software everywhere . This being typed in a standing  position  . 1:20 a.m . DGAULT :

The quotes could not be found on the tapes , and the two judges who decided the case for Ms. Malcolm and her publishers conceded that , for the purpose of their decision , `` we assume the quotations were deliberately altered . '' For all historians and most journalists , this admission would have been sufficient to condemn the Malcolm articles . But Judge Arthur Alarcon , joined by Judge Cynthia Holcomb Hall , took the astonishing  position  that it is perfectly OK to fabricate quotations so long as a judge finds that the fabrications do not alter substantive content or are rational interpretations of ambiguous remarks . In his eloquent dissent , Judge Alex Kozinski observed that when a writer uses quotation marks in reporting what someone has said , the reader assumes that these are the speaker 's precise words or at least his words purged of `` uh '' and `` you know '' and grammatical error . While judges have an obligation under the First Amendment to safeguard freedom of the press , `` the right to deliberately alter quotations is not , in my view , a concomitant of a free press . ''

Two analysts who have read the transcripts , David Nelson of Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. and Calvert D. Crary , a litigation analyst at Labe , Simpson &amp; Co. , think Judge A. David Mazzone will decide in Kodak 's favor on the `` willful and deliberate '' issue . Mr. Crary said testimony by Kodak 's patent counsel , Francis T. Carr of Kenyon &amp; Kenyon , showed that `` he worked with Kodak continuously from the outset of the project '' in an effort to avoid infringement . `` Carr told Kodak on many occasions to avoid various features because of Polaroid 's patent  positions  , '' and Kodak followed his advice in every instance , Mr. Crary said . But Irving Kayton , a patent expert at George Mason University School of Law who is familiar with the case , said the fact that seven patents were infringed `` suggests that infringement was willful . It 's difficult to be that consistently wrong . ''

`` It 's the idea that what goes in easy can come out easy '' -- so that bouts of higher volatility get built into the stock market . One new investment style called `` asset allocation '' shifts portfolio weightings between stocks , bonds and cash when computer models say one is more attractive . For instance , First Quadrant Corp. , an asset allocator based in Morristown , N.J. , said it quickly boosted stock  positions  in its `` aggressive '' accounts to 75 % from 55 % to take advantage of plunging prices Friday . It added another 5 % Monday before stocks rallied . When they did , the firm reduced those stock holdings to about 70 % .

The Internal Revenue Service plans to restructure itself more like a private corporation . In addition , the tax-collecting agency says that it will take the unusual step of looking to the private sector to fill two new high-level  positions  to guide the 120,000-employee agency : a comptroller to oversee daily finances and a chief information officer to update the information system , which includes probably the largest computer data base in the world . The IRS also said that it would create the position of chief financial officer , who will be hired from within the agency . IRS Commissioner Fred T. Goldberg said the changes are intended to bring `` accountability '' to the agency , which has an annual budget of more than $ 5 billion and collects about $ 1 trillion a year .

Mr. Guber says he brought to lunch a release document Warner had agreed to in 1988 , when he and Mr. Peters made an aborted bid to buy part of MGM\/UA Entertainment Co. to run the MGM studio . Mr. Guber says he had crossed out `` MGM '' with a red pen and written in `` Columbia , '' giving the document to Mr. Semel . `` Mr. Semel said absolutely nothing to indicate Warner would have any objection to our assuming management  positions  at Columbia , '' Mr. Guber says . Mr. Semel , in his affidavit , does n't mention any hugging or congratulating . He says he told Mr. Guber he could n't sign any documents and that `` the deal , although apparently a good one for him and Mr. Peters , would have a very negative impact on Warner . ''

The Senate rejected a constitutional amendment that President Bush sought to protect the U.S. flag from desecration . The 51-48 roll call fell well short of the two-thirds majority needed to approve changes to the Constitution . The vote , in which 11 GOP lawmakers voted against Mr. Bush 's  position  , was a victory for Democratic leaders , who opposed the amendment as an intrusion on the Bill of Rights . `` We can support the American flag without changing the American Constitution , '' said Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell of Maine . In order to defuse pressure for an amendment , Mr. Mitchell and House Speaker Thomas Foley ( D. , Wash . ) had arranged for lawmakers to pass a statute barring flag desecration before voting on the constitutional change .

Mr. Bush 's problem is n't so much that he seems to be agonizing over the issue as it is that he seems to vacillate on it . The political risk would be far less if the president drew a firm line and hewed to it , experts insist . `` If you have a  position  , you 're better off to stick with it than to move around very much , '' says Republican strategist John Sears . The need for consistency is especially acute for Mr. Bush , who , Mr. Sears maintains , lacks a strong ideological base . By his moderate Republican heritage as well as the warnings of political advisers who say the issue is vital to younger voters , the president might seem to have at least some sympathy with abortion-rights arguments .

The statement emphasized that holders representing 75 % of the shares voting at a special shareholders ' meeting must agree to lift the takeover restrictions . Jaguar officials in the U.S. noted that Ford , as Jaguar 's largest shareholder , now has the power to call for such a meeting . U.S. auto analysts also noted that Ford is in the best  position  to benefit from the large number of Jaguar shares that have moved over the past month into the hands of arbitragers waiting for the highest takeover bid . Jaguar 's own defenses against a hostile bid are weakened , analysts add , because fewer than 3 % of its shares are owned by employees and management . Ford officials in the U.S. declined to comment on the British government 's action or on any plans to call a special Jaguar shareholders meeting .

As a presidential candidate in 1980 , George Bush forthrightly expressed his  position  on abortion in an interview with Rolling Stone magazine published that March . What did he think of the Supreme Court 's decision legalizing abortion ? `` I happen to think it was right , '' Mr. Bush said flatly .

In an interest-rate options contract , a client pays a fee to a bank for custom-tailored protection against adverse interest-rate swings for a specified period . In a forward-rate agreement , a client agrees to an exchange rate on a future currency transaction . Some competitors maintain the interestrate option loss , in particular , may have resulted more from Chemical 's taking large and often contrarian  positions  than a valuation problem . Started three years ago , Chemical 's interest-rate options group was a leading force in the field . From 1987 to 1988 , the value of Chemical 's option contracts outstanding mushroomed to $ 37 billion from $ 17 billion .

Terry L. Haines , formerly general manager of Canadian operations , was elected to the new position of vice president , North American sales , of this plastics concern . Also , Larry A. Kushkin , executive vice president , North American operations , was named head of the company 's international automotive operations , another new position . He remains an executive vice president , the company said , and his new  position  reflects `` the growing importance of the world automotive market as a market for A. Schulman 's high performance plastic materials . '' Gordon Trimmer will succeed Mr. Haines as manager of Canadian operations , and Mr. Kushkin 's former position is n't being filled at this time , the company said .

Soviets remain in charge of education programs , a former head of an African military tribunal for executions is in charge of culture , and a hard-line Polish communist in exile directs the human-rights and peace division . Of the agency 's 2,750 staff members , 230 are in the field working on actual projects , such as literacy and oceanographic research . The  position  of the United States , which once contributed 25 % of the budget , is that nothing has changed . John Bolton , the assistant secretary of state for international organizations , told Congress that the continuing `` statist , restrictive , nondemocratic '' programs make rejoining any time soon `` extremely unlikely . '' This has n't much bothered the UNESCO delegates , who last week could n't even agree to raise funds by selling off a fancy 19th-century French chateau the agency somehow owns .

`` There 's not nearly as much froth , '' said John Bogle , chairman of Vanguard Group Inc. , a big Valley Forge , Pa. , fund company . Many fund managers argue that now 's the time to buy . Vincent Bajakian , manager of the $ 1.8 billion Wellington Fund , added to his  positions  in Bristol-Myers Squibb , Woolworth and Dun &amp; Bradstreet Friday . And today he 'll be looking to buy drug stocks like Eli Lilly , Pfizer and American Home Products whose dividend yields have been bolstered by stock declines . Fidelity 's Mr. Lynch , for his part , snapped up Southern Co. shares Friday after the stock got hammered .

The blast , which wrecked the opposition labor group 's offices , was the latest in a series of attacks in El Salvador 's 10-year-old civil war . Hungary 's Parliament voted to hold a national referendum on an election to fill the new post of president . The balloting to decide when and how to fill the  position  , which replaces a collective presidency under a pact signed by the ruling Socialists and opposition groups , is to be held Nov . The State Department denied asylum to a Vietnamese man who escaped from his homeland by lashing himself to the rudder housing of a tanker for two days in monsoon seas . A spokesman for Democratic Sen. Pell of Rhode Island said , however , that the Immigration and Naturalization Service would review the stowaway 's request .

But neither of us can copy the material on a Xerox machine or have it sent to us . In an era when every government agency has a public-relations machine that sends you stuff whether you want it or not , this does seem odd . Indeed , Judge O'Brien ruled that `` it would be easy to conclude that the USIA 's  position  is ` inappropriate or even stupid , ' '' but it 's the law . So the next step , I suspect , is to try to get the law changed . We ( I assume you 're in this with me at this point ) need to get three words -- `` for examination only '' -- eliminated from the law .

L.J. Hooker was a small home-building company based in Atlanta in 1979 when Mr. Simpson was hired to push it into commercial development . The company grew modestly until 1986 , when a majority position in Hooker Corp. was acquired by Australian developer George Herscu , currently Hooker 's chairman . Mr. Herscu proceeded to launch an ambitious , but ill-fated , $ 1 billion acquisition binge that included Bonwit Teller and B. Altman &amp; Co. , as well as majority  positions  in Merksamer Jewelers , a Sacramento chain ; Sakowitz Inc. , the Houston-based retailer , and Parisian Inc. , the Southeast department-store chain . Eventually Mr. Simpson and Mr. Herscu had a falling out over the direction of the company , and Mr. Simpson said he resigned in 1988 . Since then , Hooker Corp. has sold its interest in the Parisian chain back to Parisian 's management and is currently attempting to sell the B. Altman &amp; Co. chain .

As early as move six , Mr. Kasparov deviated from a well-known sequence of moves , developing a knight instead of making a standard bishop attack against the computer 's advanced knight . This left the computer with a broader range of plausible replies -- and it immediately blundered by moving a queenside pawn , to the neglect of kingside development . `` In a new  position  just after the opening , a computer will have serious problems , '' Mr. Kasparov said later . In such positions , he explained , `` you have to create something new , and the computer is n't able to do that right now . '' After only 11 moves for each side , the computer 's position was shaky .

At that point , he said , Qintex Australia stated it would `` endeavor to arrange '' the financing . However a Qintex Australia spokesman said his firm had never `` promised or guaranteed '' to make the payment . In a prepared statement from Australia , the company also said that , following the breakdown of the MGM talks , it `` had been re-evaluating its  position  as a significant shareholder and a substantial creditor of Qintex Entertainment '' and had `` resolved to minimize the degree of further loans to Qintex Entertainment in excess of that previously made . '' The Qintex Australia spokesman added that his company had opposed the Chapter 11 filing . He said the company believed Qintex Entertainment 's financial problems could have been resolved by other means .

Surveying all this , some people now think the best planner might be no planner at all . For most investors `` the benefits just are n't worth the risks , '' says Barbara Roper , who follows financial-planning issues for the Consumer Federation of America , a consumer-advocacy organization based in Washington . She concedes that such a  position  is `` unfair '' to the thousands of conscientious and qualified people plying the trade , but as a consumer advocate she feels impelled to take it . She says her group used to give tips on selecting planners -- check educational and experience credentials , consult regulators and Better Business Bureaus -- but found that even some people who took these steps `` were still getting ripped off . '' The bad news , however , has n't been bad enough to kill the growing demand for financial planning .

First Wachovia Corp. said John F. McNair III will retire as president and chief executive officer of this regional banking company 's Wachovia Corp. and Wachovia Bank &amp; Trust Co. subsidiaries on Dec. 31 . Mr. McNair , 62 years old , will be succeeded by L.M. `` Bud '' Baker Jr. , 47 , the parent 's chief credit officer and head of its administration division . Mr. Baker will relinquish his previous  positions  , but a successor for him has n't been named yet . In addition , on Jan. 1 , Thomas A. Bennett , 52 , will become vice chairman and chief operating officer of Wachovia and Wachovia Bank &amp; Trust , filling a vacancy left by the retired Hans W. Wanders in April . Mr. Bennett will continue as executive in charge of the North Carolina banking operation .

Beyond removing a competitor , the combination should provide `` synergies , '' said Fred Harlow , Unilab 's chief financial officer . It also will hand Unilab new markets . In Los Angeles , for example , Central has had a strong market  position  while Unilab 's presence has been less prominent , according to Mr. Harlow .

A bill that would permit the Securities and Exchange Commission to monitor the financial condition of securities firms ' holding companies is facing tough opposition from some Wall Street firms , which argue that the legislation is unnecessary . The legislation and other issues related to the stock market will be the focus of hearings this week by the House Telecommunications and Finance Subcommittee and the Senate Securities Subcommittee . Richard Breeden , the new chairman of the SEC , has n't taken a formal  position  on the bill , which would also require investors to disclose large trades and give the SEC additional authority during market emergencies . However , he recently told the Senate Banking Committee that he believes the agency should have explicit authority to monitor debt levels at holding companies and affiliates of broker-dealers , which are frequently used to issue bridge loans . The bridge loans are intended to provide temporary financing for acquisitions .

Your Oct. 12 editorial `` Pitiful , Helpless Presidency ? '' correctly states that I was critical of the Bush administration 's failure to have any plan in place to respond in a timely fashion to the opportunities to oust Manuel Noriega presented by the attempted military coup on Oct. 3 . You are absolutely wrong , however , in opining that this  position  is some kind of `` flip-flop , '' something newly arrived at as a result of reading the opinion polls . My position is one founded on both the facts and the law . Although you may have forgotten , public opinion about Gen. Noriega is where it is in large measure because of my investigation of his years of involvement in narcotics smuggling ( and simultaneous work as a U.S. operative ) .

Revenue rose to $ 403 million from $ 368.4 million . The company cited sales gains at its Milton Bradley and Playskool units and in its international business for the increase in revenue . Alan G. Hassenfeld , chairman and chief executive , added that Hasbro 's new line of battery-powered racing cars , called Record Breakers , and its acquisition of Cabbage Patch Kids , Scrabble and other lines from Coleco Industries Inc. puts the company `` in a good  position  as we enter the Christmas buying season . '' For the first nine months of the year , Hasbro 's net income rose 33 % to $ 68.2 million , or $ 1.15 a share , from $ 51.3 million , or 88 cents a share , on a 3.1 % increase in revenue to $ 992.7 million from $ 963 million a year earlier .

An unexpectedly sharp widening in the U.S. trade gap for August dragged the dollar lower Tuesday , but profit-taking on short  positions  helped the currency rebound to close mixed against major counterparts . While the market kept careful tabs on Wall Street 's gyrations , it shrugged off a modest downturn in equities to bid the dollar well above the day 's lows . Soon after the release of the U.S. trade figures , the dollar plunged to an intraday low of 140.95 yen .

According to officials in Washington , the State Department hoped that by pleasing President Arias , it would gain his support to postpone any decision on the Contras until after Mr. Ortega 's promises of democratic elections were tested next February . However , relying on an ardent critic of the Reagan administration and the Contra movement for help in delaying the disarming of the Contras was risky business . And even some last-minute phone calls that Mr. Bush made ( at the behest of some conservative U.S. senators ) to enlist backing for the U.S.  position  failed to stop the march of Mr. Arias 's agenda . Prior to this episode , Sen. Christopher Dodd ( D. , Conn. ) , sensing an open field , undertook a personal diplomatic mission through Central America to promote an early disbanding of the rebels . Visiting Nicaragua , he praised the Sandinistas for their electoral system and chided the Bush administration for not rewarding the Sandinistas .

No such statement appears on the tapes . The majority cited Mr. Masson 's remark `` It 's me alone ... against the rest of the analytic world '' as warrant for the Malcolm fabrication . But , as Judge Kozinski noted , the context shows that Mr. Masson 's `` me alone '' remark referred not to his alleged pre-eminence in his profession but to the fact that his  position  on a particular issue was not shared by anyone else . Ms. Malcolm had Mr. Masson describing himself as `` an intellectual gigolo . '' Again , no such statement appears on the tapes .

Ratings under review are Ryder 's A-1 collateral trust debentures , A-2 senior notes and bonds , A-2 preferred stock and the company 's Prime-1 rating for commercial paper . Moody 's said it is assessing the strategies Ryder 's management may follow in addressing significant challenges in some major markets . The rating agency said it is focusing especially on the transportation service company 's efforts to control costs , improve margins and enhance its competitive  position  in its primary business , vehicle leasing and rental .

CAMBREX Corp. , Bayonne , N.J. , declared its initial quarterly of five cents a share , payable Dec. 1 to stock of record Nov. 10 . The maker of specialty chemicals has about 5.9 million shares outstanding . The company said the move recognizes its strong financial  position  . Although profits were `` squeezed '' in 1989 , mainly as a result of higher raw-material costs , the company said it is confident about future earnings and cash flow for 1990 and beyond . In national over-the-counter trading yesterday , Cambrex shares rose 50 cents to close at $ 13 a share .

Frank Carlucci III was named to this telecommunications company 's board , filling the vacancy created by the death of William Sobey last May . Mr. Carlucci , 59 years old , served as defense secretary in the Reagan administration . In January , he accepted the  position  of vice chairman of Carlyle Group , a merchant banking concern .

Both banks have been battered , as have other Arizona banks , by falling real estate prices . Valley National , for example , had $ 470 million in problem assets as of June . `` We believe that there are numerous other candidates more qualified for this important  position  and we encourage you to give them your thorough consideration before making this key RTC appointment , '' the letter said . `` The RTC needs the most able , competent management available . '' But Mr. Simmons has long ties to both Republicans and banking .

Traders said a variety of factors triggered the rally . The consumer price index rose 0.2 % in September , while many economists were looking for a 0.4 % increase . Stock-index arbitrage buy programs -- in which traders buy stock against offsetting  positions  in futures to lock in price differences -- helped the rally 's momentum . The euphoria was such that investors responded to good earnings reports of companies such as American Express , while ignoring the disappointing profits of companies such as Caterpillar , analysts said . Stock-index arbitrage trading was a minor influence in yesterday 's rally , traders said .

The October short interest represents 1.04 days of average daily trading volume in the smaller stocks in the system for the reporting period , compared with 0.94 day a month ago . Among bigger OTC stocks , the figures represent 2.05 days of average daily volume , compared with 2.14 days in September . The adjacent tables show the issues in which a short interest  position  of at least 50,000 shares existed as of Oct. 13 or in which there was a short position change of at least 25,000 shares since Sept. 15 ( see accompanying tables -- WSJ Oct. 25 , 1989 ) .

McCaw Cellular Communications Inc. said it sent a letter to LIN Broadcasting Corp. clarifying its revised tender offer for LIN and asking LIN to conduct `` a fair auction . '' The letter apparently came in response to a request for clarification by LIN earlier this week . LIN , which has agreed with BellSouth Corp. to merge their cellular-telephone businesses , said then that it would n't take a  position  on McCaw 's revised tender offer . Earlier this month , McCaw revised its offer to $ 125 a share for 22 million LIN shares . McCaw is seeking 50.3 % of the cellular and broadcasting concern ; the revised offer includes a feature requiring McCaw to begin an auction process in July 1994 that would buy out remaining holders at a per-share price roughly equivalent to what a third party might then have to pay for all of LIN .

The carnage on the Chicago Board Options Exchange , the nation 's major options market , was heavy after the trading in S&amp;P 100 stock-index options was halted Friday . Many market makers in the S&amp;P 100 index options contract had bullish positions Friday , and when the shutdown came they were frozen with huge losses . Over the weekend , clearing firms told the Chicago market makers to get out of their  positions  at any cost Monday morning . `` They were absolutely killed , slaughtered , '' said one Chicago-based options trader . Some traders said that the closely watched Major Market Index , whose 20 stocks mimic the Dow industrials , did n't lead yesterday 's big rally .

Ralph Neas was the organizing genius , whipping a conglomerate of pressure groups into an irresistible attacking force . Harvard 's Laurence Tribe was the constitutional heavy , laying out legal strategies for the senators and witnesses to follow . But it was Ted Kennedy who scored most effectively with his searing portrayal of `` Robert Bork 's America '' -- the parade of imaginary horribles that would follow logically , he claimed , from the  positions  Mr. Bork had taken over the space of two decades . Sen. Kennedy , never mind his dubious credentials for the moral high ground , emoted brilliantly . I add two others .

More broadly , he wants to `` modernize '' regulation by eliminating barriers between commercial and investment banking and by helping U.S. financial firms compete in the global market . He believes the tax code encourages the use of debt instead of stock and may fuel leveraged buy-outs , an area the SEC does n't regulate directly but one where it wields influence both on Wall Street and in Congress . Also unlike Mr. Ruder , Mr. Breeden appears to be in a  position  to get somewhere with his agenda . As a former White House aide who worked closely with Congress , he is savvy in the ways of Washington . What 's more , the coming months likely will offer him the opportunity to obtain his own majority on the five-member commission , enabling him to avoid the dissension that frustrated his predecessor .

An ill-mannered mountain ? But let Stevens continue in his unwitting comic manner ( his conscious efforts at `` banter '' always fail -- most comically ) : `` This whole question is very akin to the question that has caused much debate in our profession over the years : what is a ` great ' butler ? '' His answer is one `` possessed of a dignity in keeping with his  position  . '' Such dignity `` has to do crucially with a butler 's ability not to abandon the professional being he inhabits . '' He `` will not be shaken out by external events , however surprising , alarming or vexing ... .

The word dissemination , it decided , referred only to itself . `` The USIA officially and publicly declared the absolute right of everyone except the USIA to disseminate agency program materials in the United States , '' my lawyer , the scholarly Mark McCormick of Des Moines , said in a memo pointing out the facts and trying to make me feel good after the press reported that I had lost . The court noted the new USIA  position  but , just in case , officially found `` that Congress did not intend to preclude plaintiffs from disseminating USIA information domestically . '' -- The USIA said that , on reflection , anyone could view the VOA materials , not just the reporters , scholars , researchers and congressmen who are mentioned in the statute . `` The USIA publicly and officially stated in the litigation that all persons are allowed access to the materials , notwithstanding the statutory designations , because the USIA has determined that it will not check the credentials of any person appearing and requesting to see the materials , '' Mr. McCormick noted .

`` I see concern , but I do n't see any panic , '' said Mr. Palamara , a big , good-humored New York native who runs the 15-trader office . The Jefferies office , a branch of the Los Angeles-based firm , played it conservatively , seeking to avoid risk . `` This is not the sort of market to have a big  position  in , '' said David Smith , who heads trading in all non-U.S. stocks . `` We tend to run a very tight book . '' Jefferies spent most of its energies in the morning trying to match buyers and sellers , and there were n't many buyers .

Looking back , he says he erred by stating his `` personal '' opposition to abortion instead of assuring voters that he would n't impose his views on `` policy '' as governor . It is a distinction that satisfies neither side in the debate . `` He does n't know himself , '' Kathy Stanwick of the Abortion Rights League says of Mr. Courter 's  position  . Even abortion opponents , however angry with Mr. Florio , ca n't hide their frustration with the Republican 's ambivalence . `` He does n't want to lead the people , '' says Richard Traynor , president of New Jersey Right to Life .

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange margins for the Standard &amp; Poor 's 500 stock-index futures stood at $ 10,000 a contract for speculators and $ 5,000 for hedgers before Oct. 16 , 1987 ; that day the hedging margin was raised to $ 7,500 . Margins were raised or lowered about a dozen times since the crash Oct. 19 , 1987 . Currently , they stand at $ 12,000 for speculators , who are typically individuals and non-member traders , and $ 6,000 for hedgers , which are usually institutions and have offsetting  positions  in the underlying stocks . Mr. Brady also said he expects the leveraged buy-out phenomenon to `` end under ( its ) own weight . '' Asked whether there is anything Congress should do to curb the LBO boom , Mr. Brady responded , `` I think the LBO phenomenon , ( while ) it wo n't stop completely , will be a thing of the past . ''

Overall , the portfolio narrowed its quarterly loss to $ 70 million from $ 80 million a year earlier . `` People were waiting to see if we would take an additional provision '' for medium-term and long-term loans to less-developed countries , a Citicorp spokesman said . But he reiterated the bank 's  position  that it is comfortable with the current level of $ 2.6 billion , covering about 30 % of the $ 8.9 billion of such loans outstanding . Ronald I. Mandle , analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co. , called Citicorp 's venture-capital gains of $ 93 million before taxes `` strong . '' A `` concerning '' item the analyst cited was the 10 % jump in expenses , which the bank attributes to costs of expanding both its consumer credit-card operations and its overseas branch business .

He declined to confirm or deny reports that Provigo executive Henri Roy is trying to put together a management buy-out of the catalogue showroom unit . Mr. Roy could n't be reached . Yvon Bussieres was named senior executive vice president and chief operating officer of Provigo , a new  position  . Mr. Bussieres was president and chief operating officer of Provigo 's Quebec retail and wholesale grocery unit . Mr. Nadeau said he intends to remain Provigo 's chief executive only until the non-food businesses are sold , after a which a new chief executive will be named .

In Tokyo Thursday , the U.S. currency opened for trading at 141.60 yen , up from Wednesday 's Tokyo close of 141.55 yen . Many traders forecast a continuation of the market 's recent bearish trend and predict the U.S. currency will remain stuck in its relatively narrow ranges in the near term and then shift lower . But according to Doug Madison , a corporate trader with Bank of America in Los Angeles , a large number of short  positions  must first be corrected , spurring a temporary upswing , before the unit can turn lower . He predicts a downward move in dollar-mark trade and a less dramatic slip in dollar-yen , noting that there continues to be a large pool of Japanese investor interest in U.S. securities , which could provide a solid base for the dollar at around 140 yen . Market participants hope today 's GNP report will offer more substantial evidence on U.S. economic growth , although analysts are quick to point out that the figures may overstate the economy 's vigor .

David Evans , who last week resigned as president and chief executive of Qintex Entertainment Inc. `` for personal reasons '' just as the company filed for bankruptcy-law protection , has been temporarily reappointed to both  positions  , the company said . Qintex Entertainment also said Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Jonathan Lloyd , 37 years old , would join the nine-member board . He succeeds Roger Kimmel , who resigned last week saying his participation in evaluating the company 's role in buying MGM\/UA Communications Co. was no longer necessary .

The New York market made its high for the day on the opening and when it dropped below the $ 1.23-a-pound level , selling picked up as previous buyers bailed out of their positions and aggressive short sellers -- anticipating further declines -- moved in . Fund selling also picked up at that point . According to Bernard Savaiko , senior commodity analyst at PaineWebber , the only stability to the market came when short sellers periodically moved in to cover their  positions  by buying contracts . This activity produced small rallies , which in turn attracted new short selling . Mr. Savaiko noted that copper had a steep fall in spite of a weak dollar , which would normally support the U.S. copper market .

Says Clayt Wilhite , president of the D'Arcy Masius ad agency 's U.S. division , `` Every time 24 hours pass without any advertising reinforcement , brand loyalty will diminish ever so slightly -- even for a powerful brand like Budweiser . '' Consider , for example , what happened to Maxwell House coffee . The Kraft General Foods brand stopped advertising for about a year in 1987 and gave up several market share points and its leadership  position  in the coffee business . But since returning to advertising , Maxwell House has regained the lost share and is running neck and neck with archrival Folgers . `` Now , Philip Morris { Kraft General Foods ' parent company } is committed to the coffee business and to increased advertising for Maxwell House , '' says Dick Mayer , president of the General Foods USA division .

Mr. Ericson says he tries to offset the leverage by diversifying the fund 's portfolio . Yet some funds have pulled in their horns . New America High Income Fund recently said that it plans to reduce its leverage  position  by buying back $ 5 million in preferred stock and notes from investors . The fund made a similar move earlier this year . `` We are trying to increase our flexibility , '' says Ellen E. Terry , a vice president at Ostrander Capital Management , the fund 's investment adviser .

After 20 years of pushing labor proposals to overhaul the nation 's health-care system , Bert Seidman of the AFL-CIO is finding interest from an unlikely quarter : big business . Corporate leaders , frustrated by double-digit increases in health-care costs , are beginning to sound like liberal Democrats . Failure to check rising medical costs ultimately could `` lead some of us who today are free-market advocates to re-examine our thinking and  positions  with respect to government-sponsored national health insurance , '' Arthur Puccini , a General Electric Co. vice president , warned earlier this year . The pocketbook impact of health benefits has driven business and labor to a surprising consensus . Both the AFL-CIO and the National Association of Manufacturers are calling for measures to control rising costs , improve quality and provide care to the 31 million Americans who currently lack health insurance .

The stocks of computer-related companies located outside California improved , too . Microsoft advanced 1 7\/8 to 80 1\/2 and Lotus Development added 1 1\/4 to 32 1\/2 . In other earthquake-related news , Hambrecht &amp; Quist 's OTC market makers were excused from trading yesterday and its  positions  were frozen for the day by the National Association of Securities Dealers . Power could n't be restored at the company 's San Francisco headquarters to allow trading yesterday morning . In New York , Roger Killion , a Hambrecht executive vice president , said he expects OTC trading at the company to resume this morning , either in New York or in San Francisco .

And , indeed , the lawsuit was dismissed . But I -- I like to think of it in terms of we , all of us -- won the point . For a funny thing happened on the way to the ruling : The United States Information Agency , which runs the Voice , changed its  position  on three key points . -- The USIA said that , on reflection , of course I could print anything I could get my hands on . The word dissemination , it decided , referred only to itself .

It is a market attribute -- the ability to absorb selling orders without causing significant price changes in the absence of news . Market makers buy what investors wish to sell ; their business is reselling these unwanted positions as quickly as possible to other investors , and at a profit . As a result , while any one customer may purchase immediacy by selling to a market maker ( which is micro-liquidity for the investor ) , the market as a whole remains in the same circumstances it was before the transaction : The unwanted  position  is still an unwanted position ; only the identity of the seller has changed . In fact it can be argued that increasing capital commitments by market makers ( a result of some post-1987 crash studies ) also increases market volatility , since the more securities are held by market makers at any given time , the more selling pressure is overhanging the market . In an open electronic system , any investor wishing to pay for real-time access to the trading arena through a registered broker-dealer would be able to see the entire supply-demand curve ( buy and sell orders at each price ) entered by dealers and investors alike , and to enter and execute orders .

Program trading amounted to 12.3 % of average daily volume in June . The Big Board says program trading describes a variety of strategies involving the purchase or sale of a basket of 15 or more stocks . The most controversial of these is stock-index arbitrage , in which traders buy or sell baskets of stocks and offset the  position  with an opposite trade in stock-index futures to lock in profits . It 's the most controversial form of program trading because it can create abrupt price swings in the stock market . Salomon Brothers Inc. was the top program trader in September , but most of the firm 's activity involved portfolio trading strategies other than stock-index arbitrage .

The Wellesley , Mass. , maker of scientific instruments and electronic parts said Berthold expects 1989 sales of more than 100 million Deutsche marks ( $ 54.5 million ) and employs about 400 people . Berthold is based in Wildbad , West Germany , and also has operations in Belgium . John M. Kucharski , EG&amp;G 's chairman and chief executive , said the acquisition `` will extend EG&amp;G 's core technologies , strengthen its  position  in the European Economic Community and assure a strength and presence in the Eastern European market . '' He said it especially will strengthen the company 's efforts in the rapidly growing field of bio-analytical instrumentation , and in applied nuclear physics . Separately , EG&amp;G said it sold most of its Mason Research Institute subsidiary to Transgenic Sciences Inc. , a closely held biotechnology company based in Worcester , Mass .

Tigrean armies are now 200 miles north of Addis Ababa , threatening the town of Dese , which would cut off Mr. Mengistu 's capital from the port of Assab , through which all fuel and other supplies reach Addis Ababa . As a result , Mr. Mengistu has been forced to transfer thousands of troops from Eritrea just to hold the town , thereby risking the loss of even more territory in Eritrea only to keep the Tigreans at bay . Mr. Mengistu is in an increasingly weak  position  : Half his army is tied down defending the northern city of Asmara from the Eritreans . The weaker he gets , the more he turns toward the U.S. for help . While the Tigreans are communists , like the Eritreans they are among the most anti-Soviet guerrillas in the world , having suffered more than a decade of aerial bombardment by the Soviet-supplied Mengistu air force .

The U.S. government 's Sverdlovsk complaint , as with Krasnoyarsk , is no mere political posturing . Biological weapons violations have figured little in political debate , and indeed have not been pressed vigorously enough by the U.S. government . But the stated U.S.  position  is detailed and specific , and the prospect of biological warfare is profoundly chilling . The Soviets should be willing to set in motion a process that would allow them to acknowledge that Sverdlovsk violated the 1972 agreement or , alternatively , that would give U.S. specialists reasonable confidence that this was a wholly civilian accident . Until that happens , glasnost can not begin to deserve the kind of credibility Mr. Shevardnadze was bidding for with his confessions on Monday .

This left the computer with a broader range of plausible replies -- and it immediately blundered by moving a queenside pawn , to the neglect of kingside development . `` In a new position just after the opening , a computer will have serious problems , '' Mr. Kasparov said later . In such  positions  , he explained , `` you have to create something new , and the computer is n't able to do that right now . '' After only 11 moves for each side , the computer 's position was shaky . Greedily , it grabbed a pawn , at the cost of facing a brutal attack .

The report says the availability of such advanced analog recording equipment as cassette recorders does n't seem to increase the quantity of home copying . That finding , the report says , casts doubt on the record industry 's contention that the new generation of digital recording equipment will inevitably lead to wholesale abuse of copyrighted material by home tapers . The longstanding  position  of the Recording Industry Association of America , a trade group based in Washington , D.C. , is that record companies , performers , songwriters and music publishers need to be remunerated by government-imposed fees on the sale of blank tapes and recording equipment to make up for royalties lost to home taping . `` I think it is a nail in the coffin in any royalty tax proposal , '' says Gary Shapiro , vice president for government and legal affairs of the Electronic Industries Association in Washington . `` What { the report } shows is everything we 've been saying for the past eight or nine years -- that audio taping is the best thing to happen for the recording industry .

No human can examine millions of moves , but Mr. Kasparov , using his ineffably powerful brain , consistently found very good ones . After eight moves by each side , the board was the same as in a game in which Nigel Short of Great Britain fought the champion to a draw in 1980 . But the computer did n't play Mr. Short 's ninth move , a key pawn thrust , and its  position  deteriorated rapidly . Instead of castling , a standard measure to safeguard the king , D.T. made a second-rate rook maneuver at move 13 ; then it put a knight offside on move 16 . `` Only two classes of minds would think of this -- very weak human players , and computers , '' said Edmar Mednis , the expert commentator for the match , which was attended by hundreds of chess fans .

Prospect Street High Income Portfolio , for instance , now holds about 15 % in cash and equivalents , nearly quintuple the amount it held earlier this year , says John Frabotta , portfolio co-manager . He says the fund , which is 40 % leveraged , has maintained a `` substantial cushion '' between its borrowing costs and the yields of the portfolio 's bonds . `` I do n't want to be in a  position  to have to sell , '' Mr. Frabotta says . Other funds have recently sold weak junk bonds to raise cash . At the 50%-leveraged Zenith Income Fund , portfolio manager John Bianchi recently dumped Mesa Petroleum , Wickes and Horsehead Industries , among others , to raise his cash position to a record 15 % .

On Thursday , William Fleckenstein , a Seattle money manager , used futures contracts in his personal account to place a bet that the broad market averages would decline . He thinks the underlying inflation rate is around 5 % to 6 % , far higher than most people suppose . In the pension accounts he manages , Mr. Fleckenstein has raised cash  positions  and invested in gold and natural gas stocks , partly as an inflation hedge . He thinks government officials are terrified to let a recession start when government , corporate and personal debt levels are so high . So he thinks the government will err on the side of rekindled inflation .

According to people familiar with the consortium , the bid was code-named Project Klute , a reference to the film `` Klute '' in which a prostitute played by actress Jane Fonda is saved from a psychotic businessman by a police officer named John Klute . L.J. Hooker was a small home-building company based in Atlanta in 1979 when Mr. Simpson was hired to push it into commercial development . The company grew modestly until 1986 , when a majority  position  in Hooker Corp. was acquired by Australian developer George Herscu , currently Hooker 's chairman . Mr. Herscu proceeded to launch an ambitious , but ill-fated , $ 1 billion acquisition binge that included Bonwit Teller and B. Altman &amp; Co. , as well as majority positions in Merksamer Jewelers , a Sacramento chain ; Sakowitz Inc. , the Houston-based retailer , and Parisian Inc. , the Southeast department-store chain . Eventually Mr. Simpson and Mr. Herscu had a falling out over the direction of the company , and Mr. Simpson said he resigned in 1988 .

The carnage on the Chicago Board Options Exchange , the nation 's major options market , was heavy after the trading in S&amp;P 100 stock-index options was halted Friday . Many market makers in the S&amp;P 100 index options contract had bullish positions Friday , and when the shutdown came they were frozen with huge losses . Over the weekend , clearing firms told the Chicago market makers to get out of their  positions  at any cost Monday morning . `` They were absolutely killed , slaughtered , '' said one Chicago-based options trader . Meanwhile , a test of the stock market 's rally came at about 2 p.m. , with the Dow at 2600 , up 31 points on the day .
